31 May 2024 (ITC)
author="Documents"
years=[2024.0531,2024.0531]

* To all Continental Boards of Counsellors

* Dearly loved Co‑workers,

The developments taking place in many parts of the worldwide Bahá’í community, as gleaned from a wide range of accounts and analyses, demonstrate a heart‑warming state of dynamism. This dynamism is most evident in the efforts to assist countries and regions that are at an early stage of development, and in the creative approaches being implemented in those localities and clusters where communities are extending the frontiers of learning. At the same time, two areas seem to need greater attention. The first concerns all the clusters and regions that do not fall into the above two categories and which need to receive adequate stimulation, guidance, and resources in order to accelerate the movement of clusters past the second and third milestones, drawing on the rich experience that has accrued over the years in regard to strengthening the process of growth. The second relates to the imperative of attending to thousands of clusters that need to be opened to the Faith in the next two years and where a programme of growth needs to be initiated and gain in intensity. Many challenges will need to be overcome in this regard. Depending on the circumstances, a community may be experiencing a low level of energy, insufficient understanding of the basic patterns of action and elements of the growth process, an inability to focus or prioritise objectives, uncertainty about how to proceed to the next level of intensity, inadequacy of administrative arrangements, or a host of other issues. In some instances, a whole region or country may be experiencing a prolonged plateau of activities, while in other cases there may be noteworthy differences even within a region.

Cognisant of the objectives of the Nine Year Plan and the need to accelerate the movement of clusters across the whole continuum of growth, you will naturally continue to promote the diligent application of appropriate strategies and lines of action. The conferences for Auxiliary Board members held in recent months will, no doubt, greatly assist these efforts. Yet, more needs to be done. Communities in many parts of the world could benefit from additional stimulus at this point in the first phase of the Plan. You should now consider what additional measures could be employed in order to infuse into current efforts a surge of energy and inspiration, and to foster greater commitment and clarity of thought among believers and institutions. It is hoped that such measures will bolster the endeavours that are already under way and give rise to new ones. As you will no doubt appreciate, the diversity of conditions and challenges around the world at this time make the introduction of a single approach or theme unsuitable for all countries and regions. As a first step, we ask that each geographic group undertake a careful and deliberate examination of the situation in each country in preparation for our discussions during the upcoming plenary meetings. Subsequently, these consultations can be extended to respective National Spiritual Assemblies, Regional Bahá’í Councils, and National Growth Committees, in order to decide on the most appropriate measure in each case.

In our consultations on how to accelerate the movement of clusters, we will explore, among other issues we plan to discuss, the necessity of taking measures that could generate the kind of dynamics referred to above. Such measures could include conferences for the generality of believers and their friends in a region, akin to those that marked the launch of the Nine Year Plan; special gatherings of the active supporters of the Plan drawn from clusters or regions with similar characteristics; conferences for members of institutions; or any other measures that would be considered appropriate.

We would appreciate being kept informed of the results of your consultations with relevant institutions, which we hope will take place soon after the meetings with the Boards, and receiving periodic updates on the impact of the measures taken.

Rest assured of our prayers in the Holy Shrines that your unflagging exertions to bring greater impetus to the efforts of the believers and institutions in this first phase of the Nine Year Plan will attract untold blessings and confirmations from on high.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

The International Teaching Centre