Book 5: Releasing the Powers of Junior Youth
author="Ruhi Institute"
years=[2022.0701,2022.0701]

# A Few Thoughts for the Tutor

Since its inception in the early 1970s, the Ruhi Institute has striven to serve through its educational activities young people between the ages of 12 and 15, often referred to as “junior youth”, who represent such a special segment of society. As it witnessed the idealism and energy of so many in this age range, the Institute became convinced of the importance of providing them with the opportunity to explore a number of themes and concepts that would enable them to deal with the complexities of life, combat the forces of moral decay gaining strength everywhere, and become active agents of social change. The next several decades constituted a period of action and reflection that benefitted increasingly from a worldwide experience in working with junior youth from a variety of backgrounds, including efforts in the field of development, most notably in the area of literacy. By around the year 2000, the concept of the spiritual empowerment of junior youth had emerged and, with it, the various facets of a three‑year programme that seeks to release their intellectual and spiritual powers in service to humanity.

Like other endeavours of the Ruhi Institute, the junior youth spiritual empowerment programme is offered at the grassroots through a system of distance education that includes, in this case, three principal elements: the “junior youth group”, the “animator”, and a specific set of materials. Releasing the Powers of Junior Youth, the fifth book in the Institute’s main sequence, is intended to assist those wishing to engage a group of youngsters from their village or neighbourhood in the programme. It is the first in a series of courses, branching off from the main sequence, that will help individuals develop the capabilities required to serve as “animators”—a designation that, in itself, bespeaks the nature of the act of service involved. While not everyone studying the book will enter this field of endeavour, it is hoped that all will derive inspiration from the themes addressed and recognise the importance of giving due attention to the noble aspirations of junior youth—this, as an essential aspect of creating a culture that promotes attitudes towards young people so different from the ones being perpetuated in society today. In such an environment, then, even individuals not directly involved in the programme will stand ready to lend their support to its burgeoning activities.

What those who act as tutors for Book 5 should acknowledge is that, among the participants, there will be many youth in their late teens or early twenties that entered the main sequence of courses with the expressed desire of serving as an animator and with all the latent capacity needed to do so. Some will have come into contact with the Faith through discussions with their peers that emphasised the role they can play in educating younger generations. Others will have gone through the spiritual empowerment programme themselves as junior youth and embarked on the study of Book 1 soon thereafter. Whatever the avenue that brought them to the institute process, they will now form part of a growing nucleus of individuals in their village or neighbourhood committed to its betterment and, in this context, will be gaining experience in visiting households in order to explore with families themes central to the Faith—the act of service addressed in Book 2. As part of this nucleus, a good number of them will also be closely associated with at least one group of junior youth in the locality and will be assisting the animator in carrying out various activities and joining him or her on regular visits to parents to discuss concepts and approaches related to the programme. At this point, all of them will possess considerable knowledge of the Bahá’í teachings, which will have deepened through their study of Books 3 and 4, and will display the skills, abilities, attitudes and spiritual qualities needed to initiate and sustain meaningful conversations with friends and neighbours. It is particularly here, when they reach Book 5, that the significance of the capacity‑building process inherent in the Ruhi Institute’s main sequence of courses—a process conceived in terms of walking a path of service—will become apparent. To engage a group of junior youth in a three‑year programme for their spiritual empowerment is a demanding act of service, and the efforts of fledgling animators to do so will rely, in no small measure, on the capacity they have steadily built on the path thus far.

The first unit of the book, “Life’s Springtime”, focuses on the attributes that the writings of the Faith indicate are to distinguish the period of youth. From the analysis carried out, a vision gradually emerges of the contribution made by each generation of youth in service to the Cause of God and to humanity. The tutor will want to ensure that participants come away from the study of the unit galvanised by the vision that unfolds, for it is this vision that informs the junior youth spiritual empowerment programme and which should give direction to their efforts to engage youngsters in its activities.

Indeed, the unit opens by asking participants to think about what characteristics they hope young adolescents will develop by the time they complete the three‑year programme at the age of 15—seen as the threshold of maturity in the Bahá’í teachings—and enter the “prime” of their youth. The tutor should understand that the purpose of the exercise is not to delve into the particulars of the programme or to contemplate the potentialities of junior youth, explorations that will be taken up in the third and second units of the book, respectively. Rather, the intention is to bring into immediate focus an image of a young person ready to assume a place among the next generation of those who will champion God’s Cause and dedicate themselves to the advancement of civilisation. For participants, the exercise will heighten their appreciation of the nature of the activity they will soon be undertaking as animators and endow their subsequent discussions with more profound meaning.

Against this backdrop, then, the unit presents a number of passages from the writings that clarify certain concepts related to the period of youth. Among the concepts introduced early in the unit is the interplay between service, education, and preparation for the future, an issue that can sometimes preoccupy young minds. What is made clear is that, when life is viewed as a whole, its various aspects, far from being in conflict with each other, can serve to reinforce one another. The exercise in Section 10 will help participants consider what this means in practical terms. Care needs to be taken, lest they go through the exercise mechanically and fail to grasp how certain life choices and ways of thinking can give rise to imaginary dichotomies and the tensions they create.

Another concept addressed in the unit, one central to its aim, is that of a twofold moral purpose. Participants will, of course, be familiar with the concept from their study of earlier books. It is treated in much greater depth here, and they should pay particular attention to the sections dedicated to its exploration, which begin by describing the dual transformation—at the level of the individual and in the structure of society—envisaged in the Bahá’í writings. The unit suggests, in this light, that young people should be imbued with a strong sense of purpose to take charge of their own intellectual and spiritual growth and to make enduring contributions to the progress of society. It claims, further, that these two aspects of moral purpose are complementary and fundamentally inseparable, for the standards and behaviour of individuals shape their environment and are, in turn, moulded by social structures and processes. Some participants may find it challenging to appreciate the implications of this claim, which are examined in the exercise in Section 16. Dominant worldviews—which, on the one hand, tend to place too much emphasis on individuality and individual freedom or, on the other, overstate the importance of social forces and political processes—can skew reality and shape beliefs and patterns of thought, oftentimes imperceptibly. When carrying out the exercise with a group, the tutor should be aware of the challenge this can pose and assist its members, if needed, in recognising assertions that are not coherent with the statement of the Guardian quoted in the section. The exploration of the concept of a twofold purpose comes to a close, then, by proposing that it is only in the field of service that such a purpose can be realised. Service, the unit argues, unites the fulfilment of individual potential with the advancement of society.

The second unit is entitled “An Age of Promise”, and it is concerned with junior youth and the immense potentialities they possess. It seeks to consolidate in the minds of those who study it the understanding that junior youth are members of a distinct age group with its own particular characteristics—characteristics which leave no doubt that, however mistaken it would be to treat them as children, it would be equally misguided to encourage them to imitate a version of adulthood superficial in its essence, one which can be seen taking root in more and more places. The unit hopes to make clear that the approach adopted by the Bahá’í community towards this age group, shaped by the writings of the Faith and charged by such examples as young Rúḥu’lláh, is radically different from approaches based on prevalent assumptions and theories, so many of which portray junior youth as rebellious and prone to crisis.

With the above aims in mind, the unit takes a brief look at the nature of early adolescence and then asks participants to reflect on the challenge of directing the growing awareness of youngsters in this age range appropriately. In this, the unit raises a warning: such efforts must avoid the pitfall of some programmes, which, instead of directing the rising self‑awareness of those in this formative phase of life towards selfless service to others, turn it in on the “self” and, sadly, end up making them captives of the “insistent self”. Sections 5 through 9 try to alert participants to some of the subtle dangers of this pitfall by taking them through a series of relevant quotations from the Bahá’í writings. The unit goes on to consider the effects of the social environment on the lives of early adolescents, introduces the concept of a “junior youth group” as an environment of mutual support, and defines the posture to be assumed by all those arising to serve as animators of such groups.

The third unit, “Serving as an Animator”, picks up, in a sense, where the second one ends and tries to familiarise participants further with the nature of this act of service. After reviewing some of the features of a junior youth group, the unit embarks on a discussion of the materials, the study of which represents the core of the programme. The greater share of the unit is given over to this discussion, and the tutor should understand well its intent, which is not simply to describe the materials for participants but to provide them with insight into what a process of spiritual empowerment involves and how the materials seek to foster its dynamics. Extracts from the materials are included throughout, but two texts are analysed in their entirety—Breezes of Confirmation and Spirit of Faith—and participants will need to have copies on hand.

The question of spiritual empowerment requires, in general, a great deal of thought and reflection by tutors. Indeed, the educational process set in motion by the institute courses can, in the final analysis, be seen as a means of moral and spiritual empowerment, one through which people of all walks of life and every background are enabled to arise and participate in building a better world. The conception of power employed here differs greatly from prevalent definitions that associate it with the intention to dominate or to induce others to acquiesce to one’s wishes and demands. The aim, instead, is to become channels for the flow of the powers of the human spirit: the power of unity, of love, of humble service, of pure deeds. How to contribute to the dynamics needed for such a process to advance—nay, accelerate—is central to the act of serving as a tutor, and with experience in engaging group after group in the study of the courses, every tutor is able to catch glimpses into the many interacting factors involved, none of which is more powerful than nurturing true understanding.

In this book, of course, the concern before the tutor extends further, to the next generation and to the nature of the educational process that will enable young adolescents to exercise their emerging powers fruitfully. At the heart of this process are the mutually reinforcing powers of thought and expression. The power of the mind to engage in abstract thought, which increases dramatically during early adolescence, is strengthened in junior youth as they learn to apply relevant scientific, moral, and spiritual concepts to their analysis of the world around them and to their initial attempts to act on society. Yet, no matter how important, the power of rational analysis is in need of spiritual perception. Through it, channels of understanding, not available through the exercise of mental powers alone, are opened. Junior youth, then, must be helped to recognise spiritual forces and identify spiritual principles in the situations they encounter if they are to make sound moral choices. That the moral structure governing a person’s thoughts and behaviour is closely connected to the structure of language in which he or she expresses thought is a basic premise of the educational process envisioned. Whatever insights the first two units of Book 5 may have offered into this process, Sections 5 through 19 of the third unit strive to make its various dimensions explicit, drawing on examples from the texts used in the programme, as necessary. Every tutor would do well to review these sections carefully in preparing to guide a group through them. It is hoped that participants will take away from their study an understanding of the potential of the texts to empower junior youth across diverse cultures.

It is in light of this discussion, then, that participants are given an opportunity to analyse two full texts, one that falls into the category of “Bahá’í‑inspired” and another that represents the distinctly Bahá’í component of the programme. These two categories are introduced to participants early in the unit, and their review of Breezes of Confirmation and Spirit of Faith is intended to help them see how, in the themes and concepts addressed and in the language employed, both texts contribute to the aims of the programme described above. The concept of confirmation treated in the former, for instance—that if one makes an effort towards worthy goals, one will attract divine confirmations—resonates in the hearts and minds of young people everywhere. The understanding they gain through study of the text seems to help them, when taking up new and challenging tasks, to overcome trepidation and the lack of confidence that often accompanies it, without creating the aggressive behaviour so indicative of too much emphasis on “self”. In this way, the simple yet profound story that unfolds in the book, usually among the first studied by junior youth, sets many on a path which protects them, at least in part, from forces of disintegration tearing at the fabric of society, forces that would rob them of their true identity as noble beings.

Similarly, the clarification of concepts provided in Spirit of Faith assists junior youth from every background in reflecting deeply on philosophical issues that begin to occupy the mind during this stage of life and in seeing the intricate connections that exist between the spiritual and the material. Among these concepts are, for example, physical evolution and the appearance of the human spirit. What the tutor should appreciate is that, for many of the young people studying Book 5 and aspiring to be animators, unless they completed the spiritual empowerment programme themselves as junior youth, the review of Spirit of Faith will constitute a first opportunity for them to explore systematically the concepts presented, and they should be given the time needed to think through its implications.

At the conclusion of this review, participants are encouraged to reflect on the principle of harmony between science and religion, not as a concept treated explicitly in the text but as one underpinning its entire discussion. What is suggested is that science and religion can be viewed as two complementary systems of knowledge and practice through which civilisation advances. The importance of this reflection should not be lost on participants, especially those preparing to enter this field of service. After all, if gaining a more complete understanding of reality is integral to a process of spiritual empowerment, then the texts for junior youth must necessarily draw on both of these sources of knowledge.

While study of the materials will form the primary focus of any group of junior youth participating in the programme, they will undertake other activities together as well. These include service projects, sports, arts and crafts, and the occasional special event. Sections 25 and 26 present a few principles and ideas related to these activities but refrain from going into too much detail, noting that their specifics will need to emerge in accordance with local circumstances. Nevertheless, it is hoped that the design and implementation of service projects will be given emphasis in the programme, for service provides an arena in which the twofold moral purpose mentioned earlier can manifest itself. In this, participants should understand that such projects will be the subject of frequent consultation in meetings with fellow animators.

The unit ends by discussing several matters related to the work of the animator, sharing insights into how to help a junior youth group form, how to conduct the first few meetings, and how to converse with parents about the nature of the programme and the progress of their sons and daughters. From the outset, participants should recognise that the capabilities required to serve effectively as an animator develop over time through continued experience and study of the courses branching off from Book 5. This calls for a level of commitment to the education of junior youth that so many in their late teens and early twenties—in the springtime of their lives—have demonstrated the capacity to attain. It is from their ranks, then, that will emerge growing numbers of those who will follow this specialised path of service, engaging group upon group in the spiritual empowerment programme, and who will, in this way, ensure that the promise of the next generation is fulfilled.

# Unit 1: Life’s Springtime
purpose="To gain an understanding of some of the characteristics that are to distinguish youth, as a prerequisite for engaging junior youth in a programme for their spiritual empowerment"

## Section 1

## Section 2

## Section 3

O loved ones of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá! Man’s life has its springtime and is endowed with marvellous glory. The period of youth is characterised by strength and vigour and stands out as the choicest time in human life. Therefore you should strive day and night so that endowed with heavenly strength, inspired with brilliant motives and aided by His celestial power and heavenly grace and confirmation, you may become the ornaments of the world of humanity, and preeminent among those who are initiated into true learning and the love of God. You must be distinguished amidst men by your sanctity and detachment, loftiness of purpose, magnanimity, determination, noble‑mindedness, tenacity, the elevation of your aims and your spiritual qualities; that you may become the means of exaltation and glory for the Cause of God and the dawning‑places of His heavenly bestowals; that you may conduct yourselves in conformity with the counsels and exhortations of the Blessed Beauty—may my life be offered up for His loved ones—and by reflecting Bahá’í qualities and attributes, you may stand out distinguished from others. ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá eagerly anticipates that each one of you may become even as a fearless lion moving in the pastures of human perfection and a musk‑laden breeze wafting over the meads of virtue.

## Section 4

O Thou kind Lord! Graciously bestow a pair of heavenly wings unto each of these fledglings and give them spiritual power that they may wing their flight through this limitless space and may soar to the heights of the Abhá Kingdom.

O Lord! Strengthen these fragile seedlings that each one may become a fruitful tree, verdant and flourishing. Render these souls victorious through the potency of Thy celestial hosts, that they may be able to crush the forces of error and ignorance and to unfurl the standard of fellowship and guidance amidst the people; that they may, even as the reviving breaths of the spring, refresh and quicken the trees of human souls and like unto vernal showers make the meads of that region green and fertile.

Thou art the Mighty and the Powerful, Thou art the Bestower and the All‑Loving.

## Section 5

The suckling babe passeth through various physical stages, growing and developing at every stage, until its body reacheth the age of maturity. Having arrived at this stage it acquireth the capacity to manifest spiritual and intellectual perfections. The lights of comprehension, intelligence and knowledge become perceptible in it and the powers of its soul unfold.

he understandeth the realities of things and the inner truths. Indeed, in his comprehension, his feelings, his deductions and his discoveries, every day of his life after maturity is equal to a year before it.

O Lord! Make this youth radiant and confer Thy bounty upon this poor creature. Bestow upon him knowledge, grant him added strength at the break of every morn and guard him within the shelter of Thy protection so that he may be freed from error, may devote himself to the service of Thy Cause, may guide the wayward, lead the hapless, free the captives and awaken the heedless, that all may be blessed with Thy remembrance and praise. Thou art the Mighty and the Powerful.

## Section 6

Blessed is he who in the prime of his youth and the heyday of his life will arise to serve the Cause of the Lord of the beginning and of the end, and adorn his heart with His love. The manifestation of such a grace is greater than the creation of the heavens and of the earth. Blessed are the steadfast and well is it with those who are firm.

The endurance of youth under arduous conditions, their vitality and vigour, and their ability to adapt themselves to local situations, to meet new challenges, and to impart their warmth and enthusiasm to those they visit, combined with the standard of conduct upheld by Bahá’í youth, make them potent instruments for the execution of the contemplated projects. Indeed, through these distinctive qualities they can become the spearhead of any enterprise and the driving force of any undertaking in which they participate, whether local or national.

Although your realities are shaped by a broad diversity of circumstances, yet a desire to bring about constructive change and a capacity for meaningful service, both characteristic of your stage of life, are neither limited to any race or nationality, nor dependent upon material means. This bright period of youth you share is experienced by all . . .

## Section 7

## Section 8

For any person, whether Bahá’í or not, his youthful years are those in which he will make many decisions which will set the course of his life. In these years he is most likely to choose his life’s work, complete his education, begin to earn his own living, marry and start to raise his own family. Most important of all, it is during this period that the mind is most questing and that the spiritual values that will guide the person’s future behaviour are adopted.

to overlook the creative energies which are available to youth in such abundance. After all, so many of the early heroes of the Faith were young men and women who arose to accomplish the greatest of deeds in the path of their Beloved.

While it is right to expect great things from those who have so much to give in the path of service, the friends must guard against adopting a narrow outlook on what development to maturity entails. Freedom of movement and availability of time enable many youth to serve in ways that are directly related to the needs of the community, but as they advance further into their twenties, their horizons broaden. . . . For many, an immediate priority will be further education, academic or vocational, according to the possibilities before them, and new spaces for interaction with society open up. . . . The significant decisions they make about the direction of their adult lives will determine whether service to the Cause of God was only a brief and memorable chapter of their younger years, or a fixed centre of their earthly existence, a lens through which all actions come into focus.

## Section 9

It strives to engage the individual in an educational process in which virtuous conduct and self‑discipline are developed in the context of service, fostering a coherent and joyful pattern of life that weaves together study, worship, teaching, community building and, in general, involvement in other processes that seek to transform society. at the heart of the educational process is contact with the Word of God, whose power sustains every individual’s attempts to purify his or her heart and to walk a path of service with ‘the feet of detachment’.

. . . the courses of the institute are intended to set the individual on a path in which qualities and attitudes, skills and abilities, are gradually acquired through service—service intended to quell the insistent self, helping to lift the individual out of its confines and placing him or her in a dynamic process of community building.

Irrespective of particulars, they will, one and all, share in the desire to dedicate their time and energy, talents and abilities, to service to their communities. Many, when given the opportunity, will gladly devote a few years of their lives to the provision of spiritual education to the rising generations. In the young people of the world, then, lies a reservoir of capacity to transform society waiting to be tapped. And the release of this capacity should be regarded by every institute as a sacred charge.

## Section 10

## Section 11

## Section 12

The purpose of the one true God in manifesting Himself is to summon all mankind to truthfulness and sincerity, to piety and trustworthiness, to resignation and submissiveness to the Will of God, to forbearance and kindliness, to uprightness and wisdom. His object is to array every man with the mantle of a saintly character, and to adorn him with the ornament of holy and goodly deeds.

The foundation‑stone of a life lived in the way of God is the pursuit of moral excellence and the acquisition of a character endowed with qualities that are well‑pleasing in His sight.

It is given to man to obtain knowledge, to attain to great spiritual perfection, to discover hidden truths and to manifest even the attributes of God.

The purpose of God in creating man hath been, and will ever be, to enable him to know his Creator and to attain His Presence.

This Wronged One testifieth that the purpose for which mortal men have, from utter nothingness, stepped into the realm of being, is that they may work for the betterment of the world and live together in concord and harmony.

And the honour and distinction of the individual consist in this, that he among all the world’s multitudes should become a source of social good. Is any larger bounty conceivable than this, that an individual, looking within himself, should find that by the confirming grace of God he has become the cause of peace and well‑being, of happiness and advantage to his fellow men? No, by the one true God, there is no greater bliss, no more complete delight.

How excellent, how honourable is man if he arises to fulfil his responsibilities; how wretched and contemptible, if he shuts his eyes to the welfare of society and wastes his precious life in pursuing his own selfish interests and personal advantages.

Do not busy yourselves in your own concerns; let your thoughts be fixed upon that which will rehabilitate the fortunes of mankind and sanctify the hearts and souls of men.

They who are the people of God have no ambition except to revive the world, to ennoble its life, and regenerate its peoples.

## Section 13

A race of men, incomparable in character, shall be raised up which, with the feet of detachment, will tread under all who are in heaven and on earth, and will cast the sleeve of holiness over all that hath been created from water and clay.

Say: He is not to be numbered with the people of Bahá who followeth his mundane desires, or fixeth his heart on things of the earth. He is My true follower who, if he come to a valley of pure gold, will pass straight through it aloof as a cloud, and will neither turn back, nor pause. Such a man is, assuredly, of Me. From his garment the Concourse on high can inhale the fragrance of sanctity.

The companions of God are, in this day, the lump that must leaven the peoples of the world. They must show forth such trustworthiness, such truthfulness and perseverance, such deeds and character that all mankind may profit by their example.

Within the very breath of such souls as are pure and sanctified far‑reaching potentialities are hidden. So great are these potentialities that they exercise their influence upon all created things.

O ye friends of God! Make ye a mighty effort that all the peoples and kindreds of the world, even the enemies, should put their trust, confidence and hope in you. Should a soul commit a hundred thousand misdeeds, yet may he hope for forgiveness and may not become despondent or grieved. Such is the conduct and behaviour of the people of Bahá. Such is the foundation of the path of loftiness. Let your conduct and manners conform to the counsels of ʻAbdu’l‑Bahá.

## Section 14

By My Self! The day is approaching when We will have rolled up the world and all that is therein, and spread out a new order in its stead.

The world’s equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrating influence of this most great, this new World Order. Mankind’s ordered life hath been revolutionised through the agency of this unique, this wondrous System—the like of which mortal eyes have never witnessed.

. . . justice and righteousness will encompass the globe; hatred and enmity will disappear; whatever is the cause of division among peoples, races, and nations will be obliterated; and that which ensures unity, harmony, and concord will be promoted. The heedless will arise from their slumber; the blind will see; the deaf will hear; the dumb will speak; the sick will be healed; the dead will be quickened; and war will give way to peace. Enmity will be transmuted into love; the root causes of contention and strife will be eliminated; mankind will attain true felicity; this world will mirror forth the heavenly Kingdom; and the earth below will become the throne of the realm above.

That which was applicable to human needs during the early history of the race could neither meet nor satisfy the demands of this day and period of newness and consummation. Humanity has emerged from its former degrees of limitation and preliminary training. Man must now become imbued with new virtues and powers, new moralities, new capacities. New bounties, bestowals and perfections are awaiting and already descending upon him.

. . . we must strive with heart and soul in order that this darkness of the contingent world may be dispelled, that the lights of the Kingdom shall shine upon all the horizons, the world of humanity become illumined, the image of God become apparent in human mirrors, the law of God be well established and that all regions of the world shall enjoy peace, comfort and composure beneath the equitable protection of God.

## Section 15

O Son of Earth! Know, verily, the heart wherein the least remnant of envy yet lingers, shall never attain My everlasting dominion, nor inhale the sweet savours of holiness breathing from My kingdom of sanctity.

So intense must be the spirit of love and loving kindness, that the stranger may find himself a friend, the enemy a true brother, no difference whatsoever existing between them.

O Children of Dust! Tell the rich of the midnight sighing of the poor, lest heedlessness lead them into the path of destruction, and deprive them of the Tree of Wealth. To give and to be generous are attributes of Mine; well is it with him that adorneth himself with My virtues.

Be thou a summoner to love, and be thou kind to all the human race. Love thou the children of men and share in their sorrows. Be thou of those who foster peace. Offer thy friendship, be worthy of trust. Be thou a balm to every sore, be thou a medicine for every ill. Bind thou the souls together. Recite thou the verses of guidance. Be engaged in the worship of thy Lord, and rise up to lead the people aright. Loose thy tongue and teach, and let thy face be bright with the fire of God’s love. Rest thou not for a moment, seek thou to draw no easeful breath. Thus mayest thou become a sign and symbol of God’s love, and a banner of His grace.

The days when idle worship was deemed sufficient are ended. The time is come when naught but the purest motive, supported by deeds of stainless purity, can ascend to the throne of the Most High and be acceptable unto Him.

Consort with all the peoples, kindreds and religions of the world with the utmost truthfulness, uprightness, faithfulness, kindliness, good‑will and friendliness, that all the world of being may be filled with the holy ecstasy of the grace of Bahá, that ignorance, enmity, hate and rancour may vanish from the world and the darkness of estrangement amidst the peoples and kindreds of the world may give way to the Light of Unity. Should other peoples and nations be unfaithful to you show your fidelity unto them, should they be unjust toward you show justice towards them, should they keep aloof from you attract them to yourselves, should they show their enmity be friendly towards them, should they poison your lives, sweeten their souls, should they inflict a wound upon you, be a salve to their sores. Such are the attributes of the sincere! Such are the attributes of the truthful.

I hope that each one of you will become just, and direct your thoughts towards the unity of mankind; that you will never harm your neighbours nor speak ill of anyone; that you will respect the rights of all men, and be more concerned for the interests of others than for your own.

Bahá’u’lláh has announced that inasmuch as ignorance and lack of education are barriers of separation among mankind, all must receive training and instruction. Through this provision the lack of mutual understanding will be remedied and the unity of mankind furthered and advanced. Universal education is a universal law.

Divine civilisation, however, so traineth every member of society that no one, with the exception of a negligible few, will undertake to commit a crime. There is thus a great difference between the prevention of crime through measures that are violent and retaliatory, and so training the people, and enlightening them, and spiritualising them, that without any fear of punishment or vengeance to come, they will shun all criminal acts. They will, indeed, look upon the very commission of a crime as a great disgrace and in itself the harshest of punishments.

## Section 16

We cannot segregate the human heart from the environment outside us and say that once one of these is reformed everything will be improved. Man is organic with the world. His inner life moulds the environment and is itself also deeply affected by it. The one acts upon the other and every abiding change in the life of man is the result of these mutual reactions.

## Section 17

## Section 18

gaining momentum with every passing day, tearing down barriers in all climes and amidst divers peoples and races, widening irresistibly the scope of its beneficent operations, and revealing ever more compelling signs of its inherent strength as it marches towards the spiritual conquest of the entire planet.

final and crowning stage in the evolution of the plan wrought by God Himself for humanity will, in turn, prove to be the signal for the birth of a world civilisation, incomparable in its range, its character and potency, in the history of mankind—a civilisation which posterity will, with one voice, acclaim as the fairest fruit of the Golden Age of the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh . . .

After many a decade, the world‑embracing labours of this far‑flung community to obtain a more adequate understanding of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh and to apply the principles it enshrines have culminated in the emergence of a potent framework for action, refined through experience. You are fortunate to be familiar with its methods and approaches now so well established. Through perseverance in their implementation, many of you will already have seen for yourselves signs of the society‑building power of the divine teachings. At the conference you attend, you are being invited to consider the contribution that can be made by any young person who wishes to answer Bahá’u’lláh’s summons and help to release that power.

The possibilities presented by collective action are especially evident in the work of community building, a process that is gaining momentum in many a cluster and in neighbourhoods and villages throughout the world that have become centres of intense activity. Youth are often at the forefront of the work in these settings—not only Bahá’í youth, but those of like mind who can see the positive effects of what the Bahá’ís have initiated and grasp the underlying vision of unity and spiritual transformation. In such places, the imperative to share the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh with receptive hearts and explore the implications of His message for today’s world is keenly felt. When so much of society invites passivity and apathy or, worse still, encourages behaviour harmful to oneself and others, a conspicuous contrast is offered by those who are enhancing the capacity of a population to cultivate and sustain a spiritually enriching pattern of community life.

To every generation of young believers comes an opportunity to make a contribution to the fortunes of humanity, unique to their time of life. For the present generation, the moment has come to reflect, to commit, to steel themselves for a life of service from which blessing will flow in abundance. In our prayers at the Sacred Threshold, we entreat the Ancient Beauty that, from out a distracted and bewildered humanity, He may distil pure souls endowed with clear sight: youth whose integrity and uprightness are not undermined by dwelling on the faults of others and who are not immobilised by any shortcomings of their own; youth who will look to the Master and “bring those who have been excluded into the circle of intimate friends”; youth whose consciousness of the failings of society impels them to work for its transformation, not to distance themselves from it; youth who, whatever the cost, will refuse to pass by inequity in its many incarnations and will labour, instead, that “the light of justice may shed its radiance upon the whole world.”

As this generation of youth assumes the responsibilities of conducting the affairs of society, it will encounter a landscape of bewildering contrast. On the one hand, the region can justly boast brilliant achievements in the intellectual, technological and economic spheres. On the other, it has failed to reduce widespread poverty or to avoid a rising sea of violence that threatens to submerge its peoples. Why—and the question needs to be asked plainly—has this society been impotent, despite its great wealth, to remove the injustices that are tearing its fibre apart?

The answer to this question, as amply evidenced by decades of contentious history, cannot be found in political passion, conflicting expressions of class interest, or technical recipes. What is called for is a spiritual revival, as a prerequisite to the successful application of political, economic and technological instruments. But there is a need for a catalyst. Be assured that, in spite of your small numbers, you are the channels through which such a catalyst can be provided.

## Section 19

We behold, as we survey the episodes of this first act of a sublime drama, the figure of its Master Hero, the Báb, arise meteor‑like above the horizon of Shíráz, traverse the sombre sky of Persia from south to north, decline with tragic swiftness, and perish in a blaze of glory. We see His satellites, a galaxy of God‑intoxicated heroes, mount above that same horizon, irradiate that same incandescent light, burn themselves out with that self‑same swiftness, and impart in their turn an added impetus to the steadily gathering momentum of God’s nascent Faith. . . .

The heroes whose deeds shine upon the record of this fierce spiritual contest, involving at once people, clergy, monarch and government, were the Báb’s chosen disciples, the Letters of the Living, and their companions, the trail‑breakers of the New Day, who to so much intrigue, ignorance, depravity, cruelty, superstition and cowardice opposed a spirit exalted, unquenchable and awe‑inspiring, a knowledge surprisingly profound, an eloquence sweeping in its force, a piety unexcelled in fervour, a courage leonine in its fierceness, a self‑abnegation saintly in its purity, a resolve granite‑like in its firmness, a vision stupendous in its range, a veneration for the Prophet and His Imáms disconcerting to their adversaries, a power of persuasion alarming to their antagonists, a standard of faith and a code of conduct that challenged and revolutionised the lives of their countrymen.

When the exalted figure of the Báb, aged just twenty‑five, arose to deliver His revolutionising message to the world, many among those who accepted and spread His teachings were young, even younger than the Báb Himself. Their heroism, immortalised in all its dazzling intensity in The Dawn‑Breakers, will illumine the annals of human history for centuries to come. Thus began a pattern in which every generation of youth, drawing inspiration from the same divine impulse to cast the world anew, has seized the opportunity to contribute to the latest stage in the unfolding process that is to transform the life of humankind. It is a pattern that has suffered no interruption from the time of the Báb to this present hour.

## Section 20

From the very beginning of the Bahá’í Era, youth have played a vital part in the promulgation of God’s Revelation. The Báb Himself was but twenty‑five years old when He declared His Mission, while many of the Letters of the Living were even younger. The Master, as a very young man, was called upon to shoulder heavy responsibilities in the service of His Father in ‘Iráq and Turkey, and His brother, the Purest Branch, yielded up his life to God in the Most Great Prison at the age of twenty‑two that the servants of God might “be quickened, and all that dwell on earth be united.” Shoghi Effendi was a student at Oxford when called to the throne of his guardianship, and many of the Knights of Bahá’u’lláh, who won imperishable fame during the Ten Year Crusade, were young people.

Consider, for example, the instances in Shíráz last summer of the six young women, their ages ranging from 18 to 25 years, whose lives were snuffed out by the hangman’s noose. All faced attempted inducements to recant their faith; all refused to deny their Beloved. Look also at the accounts of the astounding fortitude shown over and over again by children and youth who were subjected to the interrogations and abuses of teachers and mullahs and were expelled from school for upholding their beliefs. It, moreover, bears noting that under the restrictions so cruelly imposed on their community, the youth, rendered signal services, placing their energies at the disposal of Bahá’í institutions throughout the country. No splendour of speech could give more fitting testimony to their spiritual commitment and fidelity than these pure acts of selflessness and devotion. In virtually no other place on earth is so great a price for faith required of the Bahá’ís. Nor could there be found more willing, more radiant bearers of the cup of sacrifice than the valiant Bahá’í youth of Írán. Might it, then, not be reasonably expected that you, the youth and young adults living at such an extraordinary time, witnessing such stirring examples of the valour of your Íránian fellows, and exercising such freedom of movement, would sally forth, “unrestrained as the wind,” into the field of Bahá’í action?

## Section 21

For when the true lover and devoted friend reacheth the presence of the Beloved, the radiant beauty of the Loved One and the fire of the lover’s heart will kindle a blaze and burn away all veils and wrappings. Yea, all that he hath, from marrow to skin, will be set aflame, so that nothing will remain save the Friend.

O Friends! Abandon not the everlasting beauty for a beauty that must die, and set not your affections on this mortal world of dust.

Know thou that he is truly learned who hath acknowledged My Revelation, and drunk from the Ocean of My knowledge, and soared in the atmosphere of My love, and cast away all else besides Me, and taken firm hold on that which hath been sent down from the Kingdom of My wondrous utterance. He, verily, is even as an eye unto mankind, and as the spirit of life unto the body of all creation. Glorified be the All‑Merciful Who hath enlightened him, and caused him to arise and serve His great and mighty Cause. Verily, such a man is blessed by the Concourse on high, and by them who dwell within the Tabernacle of Grandeur, who have quaffed My sealed Wine in My Name, the Omnipotent, the All‑Powerful.

O army of God! Whensoever ye behold a person whose entire attention is directed toward the Cause of God; whose only aim is this, to make the Word of God to take effect; who, day and night, with pure intent, is rendering service to the Cause; from whose behaviour not the slightest trace of egotism or private motives is discerned—who, rather, wandereth distracted in the wilderness of the love of God, and drinketh only from the cup of the knowledge of God, and is utterly engrossed in spreading the sweet savours of God, and is enamoured of the holy verses of the Kingdom of God—know ye for a certainty that this individual will be supported and reinforced by heaven; that like unto the morning star, he will forever gleam brightly out of the skies of eternal grace. But if he show the slightest taint of selfish desires and self love, his efforts will lead to nothing and he will be destroyed and left hopeless at the last.

Know thou verily, the hand of divine Providence hath attracted thee to the Throne of the Kingdom, and the divine glad‑tidings hath caused such joy and happiness in thee, that thou hast removed the covering and lifted the veiling from the Countenance of the Divine Beauty, beheld the Brilliant Face through thine insight, and became cognisant of the mysteries of purity and sanctity in this divine Cause!

Now, with a heart overflowing with the love of God, supplicate to God with all joy, and thank thou God for this guidance and this high gift. And know thou, that verily, the vanguards of the gifts of thy Lord shall overtake thee from all sides when thy feet become firm in the Path.

O my God! O my God! This, Thy servant, hath advanced towards Thee, is passionately wandering in the desert of Thy love, walking in the path of Thy service, anticipating Thy favours, hoping for Thy bounty, relying upon Thy kingdom, and intoxicated by the wine of Thy gift. O my God! Increase the fervour of his affection for Thee, the constancy of his praise of Thee, and the ardour of his love for Thee.

Verily, Thou art the Most Generous, the Lord of grace abounding. There is no other God but Thee, the Forgiving, the Merciful.

# Unit 2: An Age of Promise
purpose="To explore the immense potentialities of young people between the ages of twelve and fifteen and to appreciate the significance of providing them with an environment conducive to their spiritual empowerment"

## Section 1

The rapid spread of the programme for the spiritual empowerment of junior youth is yet another expression of cultural advance in the Bahá’í community. While global trends project an image of this age group as problematic, lost in the throes of tumultuous physical and emotional change, unresponsive and self‑consumed, the Bahá’í community—in the language it employs and the approaches it adopts—is moving decidedly in the opposite direction, seeing in junior youth instead altruism, an acute sense of justice, eagerness to learn about the universe and a desire to contribute to the construction of a better world. Account after account, in which junior youth in countries all over the planet give voice to their thoughts as participants in the programme, testifies to the validity of this vision. There is every indication that the programme engages their expanding consciousness in an exploration of reality that helps them to analyse the constructive and destructive forces operating in society and to recognise the influence these forces exert on their thoughts and actions, sharpening their spiritual perception, enhancing their powers of expression and reinforcing moral structures that will serve them throughout their lives. At an age when burgeoning intellectual, spiritual and physical powers become accessible to them, they are being given the tools needed to combat the forces that would rob them of their true identity as noble beings and to work for the common good.

## Section 2

After a time he enters the period of youth, in which his former conditions and needs are superseded by new requirements applicable to the advance in his degree. His faculties of observation are broadened and deepened; his intelligent capacities are trained and awakened; the limitations and environment of childhood no longer restrict his energies and accomplishments.

## Section 3

It is extremely difficult to teach the individual and refine his character once puberty is passed. By then, as experience hath shown, even if every effort be exerted to modify some tendency of his, it all availeth nothing. He may, perhaps, improve somewhat today; but let a few days pass and he forgetteth, and turneth backward to his habitual condition and accustomed ways.

## Section 4

The individuality of each created thing is based upon divine wisdom, or in the creation of God there is no defect. However, personality has no element of permanence. It is a slightly changeable quality in man which can be turned in either direction. For if he acquire praiseworthy virtues, these strengthen the individuality of man and call forth his hidden forces; but if he acquire defects, the beauty and simplicity of the individuality will be lost to him and its God‑given qualities will be stifled in the foul atmosphere of self.

## Section 5

O My servants! Could ye apprehend with what wonders of My munificence and bounty I have willed to entrust your souls, ye would, of a truth, rid yourselves of attachment to all created things, and would gain a true knowledge of your own selves—a knowledge which is the same as the comprehension of Mine own Being. Ye would find yourselves independent of all else but Me, and would perceive, with your inner and outer eye, and as manifest as the revelation of My effulgent Name, the seas of My loving‑kindness and bounty moving within you.

Far, far from Thy glory be what mortal man can affirm of Thee, or attribute unto Thee, or the praise with which he can glorify Thee! Whatever duty Thou hast prescribed unto Thy servants of extolling to the utmost Thy majesty and glory is but a token of Thy grace unto them, that they may be enabled to ascend unto the station conferred upon their own inmost being, the station of the knowledge of their own selves.

The first Ṭaráz and the first effulgence which hath dawned from the horizon of the Mother Book is that man should know his own self and recognise that which leadeth unto loftiness or lowliness, glory or abasement, wealth or poverty.

O Son of Spirit! I created thee rich, why dost thou bring thyself down to poverty? Noble I made thee, wherewith dost thou abase thyself? Out of the essence of knowledge I gave thee being, why seekest thou enlightenment from anyone beside Me? Out of the clay of love I moulded thee, how dost thou busy thyself with another? Turn thy sight unto thyself, that thou mayest find Me standing within thee, mighty, powerful and self‑subsisting.

## Section 6

Every imperfect soul is self‑centred and thinketh only of his own good.

But if he show the slightest taint of selfish desires and self love, his efforts will lead to nothing and he will be destroyed and left hopeless at the last.

In particular thou wishest for deliverance from self‑conceit. This quality, which is pride, hath been the ruin of many important people in the world. Should a person be possessed of all praiseworthy qualities yet be egotistical, then all those virtues and goodly characteristics will be obliterated, and ultimately converted into the worst of defects.

Despair, both here and hereafter, is all you will gain from self‑indulgence; abomination and misery are all you will harvest from fanaticism, from believing the foolish and the mindless.

Today, all the peoples of the world are indulging in self‑interest and exert the utmost effort and endeavour to promote their own material interests. They are worshipping themselves and not the divine reality, nor the world of mankind.

These tests, even as thou didst write, do but cleanse the spotting of self from off the mirror of the heart, till the Sun of Truth can cast its rays thereon; for there is no veil more obstructive than the self, and however tenuous that veil may be, at the last it will completely shut a person out, and deprive him of his portion of eternal grace.

Behold how the sun shines upon all creation, but only surfaces that are pure and polished can reflect its glory and light. The darkened soul has no portion of the revelation of the glorious effulgence of reality; and the soil of self, unable to take advantage of that light, does not produce growth.

How debased the soul which can find enjoyment in this darkness, occupied with itself, the captive of self and passion, wallowing in the mire of the material world!

## Section 7

Today the confirmations of the Kingdom of Abhá are with those who renounce themselves, forget their own opinions, cast aside personalities and are thinking of the welfare of others. Whosoever has lost himself has found the universe and the inhabitants thereof. Whosoever is occupied with himself is wandering in the desert of heedlessness and regret. The ‘Master Key’ to self‑mastery is self‑forgetting. The road to the palace of life is through the path of renunciation.

He has endowed us with a power to penetrate the realities of things; but we must be self‑abnegating, we must have pure spirits, pure intentions, and strive with heart and soul while in the human world to attain everlasting glory.

Wherefore must the veils of the satanic self be burned away in the fire of love, that the spirit may be cleansed and refined, and thus may apprehend the station of Him but for Whom the world would not have been created.

Leave all thought of self, and strive only to be obedient and submissive to the Will of God. In this way only shall we become citizens of the Kingdom of God, and attain unto life everlasting.

Do all ye can to become wholly weary of self, and bind yourselves to that Countenance of Splendours; and once ye have reached such heights of servitude, ye will find, gathered within your shadow, all created things. This is boundless grace; this is the highest sovereignty; this is the life that dieth not. All else save this is at the last but manifest perdition and great loss.

Wherefore, O friend, renounce thy self, that thou mayest find the Peerless One; and soar beyond this mortal world, that thou mayest find thy nest in the abode of heaven. Be as naught, if thou wouldst kindle the fire of being and be fit for the pathway of love.

Let us put aside all thoughts of self; let us close our eyes to all on earth, let us neither make known our sufferings nor complain of our wrongs. Rather let us become oblivious of our own selves, and drinking down the wine of heavenly grace, let us cry out our joy, and lose ourselves in the beauty of the All‑Glorious.

O people of the world! Follow not the promptings of the self, for it summoneth insistently to wickedness and lust; follow, rather, Him Who is the Possessor of all created things, Who biddeth you to show forth piety, and manifest the fear of God.

## Section 8

The mass of the people are occupied with self and worldly desire, are immersed in the ocean of the nether world and are captives of the world of nature, save those souls who have been freed from the chains and fetters of the material world and, like unto swift‑flying birds, are soaring in this unbounded realm. They are awake and vigilant, they shun the obscurity of the world of nature, their highest wish centreth on the eradication from among men of the struggle for existence, the shining forth of the spirituality and the love of the realm on high, the exercise of utmost kindness among peoples, the realisation of an intimate and close connection between religions and the practice of the ideal of self‑sacrifice. Then will the world of humanity be transformed into the Kingdom of God.

O army of God! Today, in this world, every people is wandering astray in its own desert, moving here and there according to the dictates of its fancies and whims, pursuing its own particular caprice. Amongst all the teeming masses of the earth, only this community of the Most Great Name is free and clear of human schemes and hath no selfish purpose to promote. Alone amongst them all, this people hath arisen with aims purified of self, following the Teachings of God, most eagerly toiling and striving toward a single goal: to turn this nether dust into high heaven, to make of this world a mirror for the Kingdom, to change this world into a different world, and cause all humankind to adopt the ways of righteousness and a new manner of life.

O ye loved ones of God! In this, the Bahá’í dispensation, God’s Cause is spirit unalloyed. His Cause belongeth not to the material world. It cometh neither for strife nor war, nor for acts of mischief or of shame; it is neither for quarrelling with other Faiths, nor for conflicts with the nations. Its only army is the love of God, its only joy the clear wine of His knowledge, its only battle the expounding of the Truth; its one crusade is against the insistent self, the evil promptings of the human heart. Its victory is to submit and yield, and to be selfless is its everlasting glory.

## Section 9

Inspire them, O my Lord, with a sense of their own powerlessness before Him Who is the Manifestation of Thy Self, and teach them to recognise the poverty of their own nature in the face of the manifold tokens of Thy self‑sufficiency and riches, that they may gather together round Thy Cause, and cling to the hem of Thy mercy, and cleave to the cord of the good pleasure of Thy will.

Divest, then, Thy servants, O my God, of the garments of self and desire, or grant that the eyes of Thy people may be lifted up to such heights that they will discern in their desires naught except the stirring of the gentle winds of Thine eternal glory, and may recognise in their own selves nothing but the revelation of Thine own merciful Self, that the earth and all that is therein may be cleansed of whatever is alien to Thee, or anything that manifesteth aught save Thy Self.

## Section 10

## Section 11

## Section 12

. . . the Cause of God will derive immense benefit when it is observed that the Bahá’ís, and particularly Bahá’í youth, stand out against the laxity and depravity of the permissive society, that the exalted standards of conduct which they strive to uphold are firmly rooted in spiritual principles, giving them confidence, self‑respect and true happiness. On the other hand only the greatest harm can be done to the Cause if its followers are simply engulfed by the current tide.

Indeed, the chief reason for the evils now rampant in society is a lack of spirituality. The materialistic civilisation of our age has so much absorbed the energy and interest of mankind, that people in general no longer feel the necessity of raising themselves above the forces and conditions of their daily material existence. There is not sufficient demand for things that we should call spiritual to differentiate them from the needs and requirements of our physical existence.

## Section 13

## Section 14

## Section 15

## Section 16

## Section 17

## Section 18

## Section 19

It is the hope of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá that those youthful souls in the schoolroom of the deeper knowledge will be tended by one who traineth them to love. May they all, throughout the reaches of the spirit, learn well of the hidden mysteries; so well that in the Kingdom of the All‑Glorious, each one of them, even as a nightingale endowed with speech, will cry out the secrets of the Heavenly Realm, and like unto a longing lover pour forth his sore need and utter want of the Beloved.

## Section 20

First of all, be ready to sacrifice your lives for one another, to prefer the general well‑being to your personal well‑being. Create relationships that nothing can shake; form an assembly that nothing can break up; have a mind that never ceases acquiring riches that nothing can destroy. If love did not exist, what of reality would remain? It is the fire of the love of God which renders man superior to the animal. Strengthen this superior force through which is attained all the progress in the world.

## Section 21

## Section 22

The believers are, for the most part, young in the Cause, and if they make mistakes it is not half as important as if their spirit is crushed by being told all the time—do this and don’t do that!

Verily I render thanks unto God for having aided you to serve His Cause in His great vineyard.

Verily, I praise my Supreme Lord for choosing you to call in His Name among the people, for attracting you to the beauty of the All‑Glorious, and for strengthening you to render His Cause victorious.

Verily, God purged thee of sins when He immersed thee in the sea of His mercy and gave thee to drink of the cup of faith and the pure wine of recognition. Well done! Well done! For thou hast yearned to surrender thy will to the will of God and hast longed to increase thy love for God, to broaden thy knowledge of Him, and to remain steadfast in His path.

O my spiritual loved ones! Praise be to God, ye have thrust the veils aside and recognised the compassionate Beloved, and have hastened away from this abode to the placeless realm. Ye have pitched your tents in the world of God, and to glorify Him, the Self‑Subsistent, ye have raised sweet voices and sung songs that pierced the heart. Well done! A thousand times well done! For ye have beheld the Light made manifest, and in your reborn beings ye have raised the cry, “Blessed be the Lord, the best of all creators!”

O ye sincere ones, ye longing ones, ye who are drawn as if magnetised, ye who have risen up to serve the Cause of God, to exalt His Word and scatter His sweet savours far and wide! I have read your excellent letter, beautiful as to style, eloquent as to words, profound as to meaning, and I praised God and thanked Him for having come to your aid and enabled you to serve Him in His widespreading vineyard.

Thy letter was like a perfumed bouquet of flowers shedding abroad the fragrance of faith and certitude. Well done! Well done! Thou hast turned thy face toward the unseen Kingdom. Splendid! Splendid! Thou wast attracted to the Beauty of the Almighty! Marvellous! Marvellous! How fortunate thou wast to have attained unto this supreme bounty!

## Section 23

Joy gives us wings! In times of joy our strength is more vital, our intellect keener, and our understanding less clouded. We seem better able to cope with the world and to find our sphere of usefulness.

The inner joy that every individual seeks, unlike a passing emotion, is not contingent on outside influences; it is a condition, born of certitude and conscious knowledge, fostered by a pure heart, which is able to distinguish between that which has permanence and that which is superficial.

The greatest gift of man is universal love—that magnet which renders existence eternal. It attracts realities and diffuses life with infinite joy. If this love penetrate the heart of man, all the forces of the universe will be realised in him, for it is a divine power which transports him to a divine station and he will make no progress until he is illumined thereby. Strive to increase the love‑power of reality, to make your hearts greater centres of attraction and to create new ideals and relationships.

# Unit 3: Serving as an Animator
purpose="To reflect on concepts that shape the junior youth spiritual empowerment programme"

## Section 1

## Section 2

## Section 3

One of the basic principles governing Bahá’í social and economic development is that the friends should give the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh liberally and unconditionally to humanity so that people everywhere can apply them to pressing social issues and improve their individual and collective lives, both in material and spiritual dimensions. Access to the Word of God should not be conditioned upon acceptance of Bahá’u’lláh as a Manifestation of God for today. Moreover, it would not be inappropriate to refrain from explicitly mentioning the Source of inspiration underlying an educational programme developed on the basis of His Teachings, when circumstances demand it. In this light, there are a range of options that the friends can consider when creating educational materials which draw on the teachings and principles of the Faith.

We have been asked to inform you that there is no requirement to cite the author when using a quotation from the Bahá’í Writings in Bahá’í‑inspired curricula material if there appears to be a wisdom in not doing so.

## Section 4

. . . the dangers facing the modern youth are becoming increasingly grave, and call for immediate solution. But, as experience clearly shows, the remedy to this truly sad and perplexing situation is not to be found in traditional and ecclesiastical religion. The dogmatism of the Church has been discarded once for all. What can control youth and save it from the pitfalls of the crass materialism of the age is the power of a genuine, constructive and living Faith such as the one revealed to the world by Bahá’u’lláh. Religion as in the past, is still the world’s sole hope, but not that form of religion which our ecclesiastical leaders strive vainly to preach. Divorced from true religion, morals lose their effectiveness and cease to guide and control man’s individual and social life. But when true religion is combined with true ethics, then moral progress becomes a possibility and not a mere ideal.

## Section 5

Let them make the greatest progress in the shortest span of time, let them open wide their eyes and uncover the inner realities of all things, become proficient in every art and skill, and learn to comprehend the secrets of all things even as they are—this faculty being one of the clearly evident effects of servitude to the Holy Threshold.

It is clearly evident that while man possesses powers in common with the animal, he is distinguished from the animal by intellectual attainment, spiritual perception, the acquisition of virtues, capacity to receive the bestowals of Divinity, lordly bounty and emanations of heavenly mercy. This is the adornment of man, his honour and sublimity. Humanity must strive toward this supreme station.

He has given us material gifts and spiritual graces, outer sight to view the lights of the sun and inner vision by which we may perceive the glory of God. He has designed the outer ear to enjoy the melodies of sound and the inner hearing wherewith we may hear the voice of our Creator.

Our spiritual perception, our inward sight must be opened, so that we can see the signs and traces of God’s spirit in everything. Everything can reflect to us the light of the Spirit.

The conception of annihilation is a factor in human degradation, a cause of human debasement and lowliness, a source of human fear and abjection. It has been conducive to the dispersion and weakening of human thought, whereas the realisation of existence and continuity has upraised man to sublimity of ideals, established the foundations of human progress and stimulated the development of heavenly virtues; therefore, it behoves man to abandon thoughts of nonexistence and death, which are absolutely imaginary, and see himself ever‑living, everlasting in the divine purpose of his creation. He must turn away from ideas which degrade the human soul so that day by day and hour by hour he may advance upward and higher to spiritual perception of the continuity of the human reality.

## Section 6

The more pure and sanctified the heart of man becomes, the nearer it draws to God, and the light of the Sun of Reality is revealed within it. This light sets hearts aglow with the fire of the love of God, opens in them the doors of knowledge and unseals the divine mysteries so that spiritual discoveries are made possible.

For the understanding of the reality of things confers a material advantage in the realm of being and brings about the progress of outward civilisation, but the knowledge of God is the cause of spiritual progress and attraction, true vision and insight, the exaltation of humanity, the appearance of divine civilisation, the rectification of morals, and the illumination of the conscience.

O my friend! Render thou thanks unto God for having illumined thy sight with the effulgent rays shed from the Sun of Truth, and for having quickened thee and baptised thee with the water of life and the fire of the love of God.

The love of God is spoken of as fire, for it burneth away the veils, and as water, for it is the source of life. In short, the love of God is the inmost reality of the virtues of the world of humanity. Through it, human nature is purified. Through the love of God, one is delivered from the defects of the human world. Through the love of God, one maketh progress in the realm of virtues. The love of God is the cause of the illumination of the world.

## Section 7

The bestowals of God which are manifest in all phenomenal life are sometimes hidden by intervening veils of mental and mortal vision which render man spiritually blind and incapable, but when those scales are removed and the veils rent asunder, then the great signs of God will become visible, and he will witness the eternal light filling the world. The bestowals of God are all and always manifest. The promises of heaven are ever present. The favours of God are all‑surrounding, but should the conscious eye of the soul of man remain veiled and darkened, he will be led to deny these universal signs and remain deprived of these manifestations of divine bounty. Therefore, we must endeavour with heart and soul in order that the veil covering the eye of inner vision may be removed, that we may behold the manifestations of the signs of God, discern His mysterious graces and realise that material blessings as compared with spiritual bounties are as nothing.

Every soul must endeavour that the veils that cover men’s eyes may be torn asunder and that instantly the sun may be seen and that heart and sight may be illumined thereby.

My prayer for you is that your spiritual faculties and aspirations may daily increase, and that you will never allow the material senses to veil from your eyes the glories of the Heavenly Illumination.

One of the veils is literal interpretation. To penetrate the inner significances a mighty effort is needed.

Praise thou God that thou hast found thy way into the Kingdom of Splendours, and hast rent asunder the veil of vain imaginings, and that the core of the inner mystery hath been made known unto thee.

I fervently supplicate God to remove the veil from thine inner eye; to reveal to thee His most mighty signs; and to make thee a banner of guidance, wholly detached from all else but Him, ablaze with the fire of His love, occupied with His remembrance, and conscious of the realities of all things, that thou mayest see with thine own eyes, hear with thine own ears, and refrain from imitating any of thy forefathers. Look thou with insight into the Cause of thy Lord, for the people are wrapped in veils of darkness.

. . . for there is no veil more obstructive than the self, and however tenuous that veil may be, at the last it will completely shut a person out, and deprive him of his portion of eternal grace.

Yet the pursuit of passion and desire will wrap the eyes in a thousand veils that rise out of the heart to blind the sight and the insight as well.

O children of understanding! If the eyelid, however delicate, can deprive man’s outer eye from beholding the world and all that is therein, consider then what would be wrought if the veil of covetousness were to descend upon his inner eye. Say: O people! The darkness of greed and envy becloudeth the radiance of the soul even as the clouds obstruct the light of the sun.

I hope that you will turn with unclouded eyes towards the Sun of Truth, beholding not the things of earth . . . ; let that Sun give you of His strength, then will not the clouds of prejudice veil His illumination from your eyes! Then will the Sun be without clouds for you.

Know thou, verily, there are many veils in which the Truth is enveloped: gloomy veils; then delicate and transparent veils; then the envelopment of Light, the sight of which dazzles the eyes, as doth the sun which is enveloped only in its own light and, as we look at it, the sight is blinded and eyes are dazzled.

I beg of God to remove all the veilings and familiarise the light with all eyes, so that man may not be veiled from witnessing the Sun of Truth.

## Section 8

## Section 9

There are certain pillars which have been established as the unshakeable supports of the Faith of God. The mightiest of these is learning and the use of the mind, the expansion of consciousness, and insight into the realities of the universe and the hidden mysteries of Almighty God.

## Section 10

O people of Bahá! The source of crafts, sciences and arts is the power of reflection. Make ye every effort that out of this ideal mine there may gleam forth such pearls of wisdom and utterance as will promote the well‑being and harmony of all the kindreds of the earth.

He hath come for your salvation, and hath borne tribulations that ye may ascend, by the ladder of utterance, unto the summit of understanding.

## Section 11

Through the movement of Our Pen of glory We have, at the bidding of the omnipotent Ordainer, breathed a new life into every human frame, and instilled into every word a fresh potency. All created things proclaim the evidences of this worldwide regeneration.

May your souls be illumined by the light of the Words of God, and may you become repositories of the mysteries of God, for no comfort is greater and no happiness is sweeter than spiritual comprehension of the divine teachings. If a man understands the real meaning of a poet’s verses such as those of Shakespeare, he is pleased and rejoiced. How much greater his joy and pleasure when he perceives the reality of the Holy Scriptures and becomes informed of the mysteries of the Kingdom!

## Section 12

Say: Human utterance is an essence which aspireth to exert its influence and needeth moderation. As to its influence, this is conditional upon refinement which in turn is dependent upon hearts which are detached and pure.

Moreover words and utterances should be both impressive and penetrating. However, no word will be infused with these two qualities unless it be uttered wholly for the sake of God and with due regard unto the exigencies of the occasion and the people.

I beseech God to cast upon your heads the pearls of His bounty; to ignite in your hearts the fire of His love; to unloose your tongues to utter the most eloquent words and the most wondrous mysteries in the assemblage of the righteous; to make you flowers of the Abhá Paradise and angels of heaven, united in your views and with your thoughts harmonised; and to manifest in your faces the holy signs of His Kingdom amidst all people.

If thou wishest thy speech and utterance to penetrate hearts that are hardened, rid thyself of all attachment to the world and turn thy face unto the Kingdom of God.

## Section 13

Now is the moment in which to cleanse thyself with the waters of detachment that have flowed out from the Supreme Pen, and to ponder, wholly for the sake of God, those things which, time and again, have been sent down or manifested, and then to strive, as much as lieth in thee, to quench, through the power of wisdom and the force of thy utterance, the fire of enmity and hatred which smouldereth in the hearts of the peoples of the world.

This servant appealeth to every diligent and enterprising soul to exert his utmost endeavour and arise to rehabilitate the conditions in all regions and to quicken the dead with the living waters of wisdom and utterance, by virtue of the love he cherisheth for God, the One, the Peerless, the Almighty, the Beneficent.

Every word is endowed with a spirit, therefore the speaker or expounder should carefully deliver his words at the appropriate time and place, for the impression which each word maketh is clearly evident and perceptible. The Great Being saith: One word may be likened unto fire, another unto light, and the influence which both exert is manifest in the world. Therefore an enlightened man of wisdom should primarily speak with words as mild as milk, that the children of men may be nurtured and edified thereby and may attain the ultimate goal of human existence which is the station of true understanding and nobility. And likewise He saith: One word is like unto springtime causing the tender saplings of the rose‑garden of knowledge to become verdant and flourishing, while another word is even as a deadly poison. It behoveth a prudent man of wisdom to speak with utmost leniency and forbearance so that the sweetness of his words may induce everyone to attain that which befitteth man’s station.

## Section 14

The Daystar of utterance, shining resplendent from the dayspring of divine Revelation, hath so illumined the Scrolls and Tablets that the kingdom of utterance and the exalted dominion of understanding vibrate with joy and ecstasy and shine forth with the splendour of His light.

Say: We have caused the rivers of Divine utterance to proceed out of Our throne, that the tender herbs of wisdom and understanding may spring forth from the soil of your hearts.

Through the breaths of Thine utterance the heaven of understanding hath been adorned, and by the effusions of Thy pen every mouldering bone hath been quickened.

It is clear and evident, therefore, that the first bestowal of God is the Word, and its discoverer and recipient is the power of understanding. This Word is the foremost instructor in the school of existence and the revealer of Him Who is the Almighty. All that is seen is visible only through the light of its wisdom. All that is manifest is but a token of its knowledge. All names are but its name, and the beginning and end of all matters must needs depend upon it.

## Section 15

. . . in the spiritual realm of intelligence and idealism there must be a centre of illumination, and that centre is the everlasting, ever‑shining Sun, the Word of God. Its lights are the lights of reality which have shone upon humanity, illumining the realm of thought and morals, conferring the bounties of the divine world upon man.

## Section 16

## Section 17

## Section 18

## Section 19

I pray Thee, O Thou Who art the Lord of all names and the Ruler of both earth and heaven, to grant that all who are dear to Thee may each become a cup of Thy mercy in Thy days, that they may quicken the hearts of Thy servants. Empower them also, O my God, to be as the rain that poureth down from the clouds of Thy grace, and as the winds that waft the vernal fragrances of Thy loving‑kindness, that through them the soil of the hearts of Thy creatures may be clad with verdure, and may bring forth the things that will shed their fragrance over all Thy dominion, so that every one may perceive the sweet smell of the Robe of Thy Revelation.

Empower us, then, O my God, to spread abroad Thy signs among Thy creatures, and to guard Thy Faith in Thy realm.

Empower me, then, O my God, to be reckoned among them that have clung to Thy laws and precepts for the sake of Thee alone, their eyes fixed on Thy face.

Empower us, then, O my God, to forsake ourselves and cleave steadfastly to Him Who is the Manifestation of Thy Self, the Most Exalted, the Most High.

I entreat Thee, by Him Who is the Dayspring of Thy names and the Dawning‑Place of Thine attributes, to ordain for me what will enable me to arise to serve Thee and to extol Thy virtues.

Enable me to be one of Thy maidservants who have attained to Thy good pleasure.

Protect these children, graciously assist them to be educated and enable them to render service to the world of humanity.

Send down, then, upon me, O my Beloved, that which will enable me to be steadfast in Thy Cause, so that the doubts of the infidels may not hinder me from turning towards Thee.

Enable me, then, to obtain a seat of truth in Thy presence, bestow upon me a token of Thy mercy and let me join with such of Thy servants as shall have no fear nor shall they be put to grief.

O my God, aid Thou Thy servant to raise up the Word, and to refute what is vain and false, to establish the truth, to spread the sacred verses abroad, reveal the splendours, and make the morning’s light to dawn in the hearts of the righteous.

Enable them to distinguish themselves amongst Thy people, that they may exalt Thy word and promote Thy Cause. Aid them, O my God, to do Thy will and pleasure.

## Section 20

## Section 21

## Section 22

## Section 23

## Section 24

## Section 25

## Section 26

## Section 27

## Section 28

## Section 29

## Section 30

Not surprisingly, it is your age group that is gaining the most experience at aiding junior youth, and children too, with their moral and spiritual development, fostering in them capacity for collective service and true friendship. After all, aware of the world which these young souls will need to navigate, with its pitfalls and also its opportunities, you readily appreciate the importance of spiritual strengthening and preparation. Conscious, as you are, that Bahá’u’lláh came to transform both the inner life and external conditions of humanity, you are assisting those younger than yourselves to refine their characters and prepare to assume responsibility for the well‑being of their communities. As they enter adolescence, you are helping them to enhance their power of expression, as well as enabling a strong moral sensibility to take root within them. In so doing, your own sense of purpose is becoming more clearly defined as you heed Bahá’u’lláh’s injunction: “Let deeds, not words, be your adorning.”