Stories from the Main Sequence
author="Stories"

# Book 2: The Life of Bahá’u’lláh

Bahá’u’lláh was born on 12 November 1817 in Ṭihrán, the capital city of Persia. From childhood He showed extraordinary qualities, and His parents were convinced that He was destined for greatness. Bahá’u’lláh’s father, a distinguished minister in the court of the king, had immense love for his Son. One night he dreamt that Bahá’u’lláh was swimming in a limitless ocean, His body shining and illuminating the vast sea. Around His head radiated His long jet‑black hair, floating in all directions. A multitude of fish gathered around Him, each holding on to the extremity of one hair. Great as was the number of fish, not a single hair was detached from Bahá’u’lláh’s head. He moved freely and unrestrained, and they all followed Him. Bahá’u’lláh’s father asked a man renowned for his wisdom to explain the dream. He was told that the limitless ocean was the world of being. Alone and single‑handed, Bahá’u’lláh would achieve sovereignty over it. The multitude of fish represented the turmoil which He would arouse among the peoples of the world. He would have the unfailing protection of the Almighty; this tumult would not harm Him.

By the time Bahá’u’lláh was thirteen or fourteen, He was famous in the court of the king for His wisdom and learning. He was twenty‑two years old when His father died, and the government offered his position to Bahá’u’lláh. But He had no intention of spending His time in the management of worldly affairs. He left behind the court and its ministers to follow the path set for Him by God. He devoted His time to helping the oppressed, the sick and the poor, and soon He became known as a champion of the cause of justice.

At the age of twenty‑seven, Bahá’u’lláh received, through a special messenger, some of the Writings of the Báb, Who was proclaiming the dawn of a new Day, the Day when a new Manifestation of God would bring to the world the peace, unity and justice long awaited by humanity. Bahá’u’lláh immediately accepted the Message of the Báb and became one of His most enthusiastic followers. But alas, those who ruled over the people of Persia, blinded by their own selfish desires, set out to persecute the followers of the Báb with great savagery. Bahá’u’lláh, despite being known for His nobility, was not spared. A little over eight years after the Báb’s Declaration, and two years after the Báb Himself had been martyred, He was imprisoned in a dark dungeon called the Black Pit. The chains put around His neck were so heavy that He could not lift His head. Here Bahá’u’lláh spent four terrible months in severe hardship. Yet it was in this same dungeon that the Spirit of God filled His soul and revealed to Him that He was the Promised One of all ages. From this dark prison, the Sun of Bahá’u’lláh rose illuminating the entire creation.

After four months in the Black Pit, Bahá’u’lláh was stripped of all His possessions, and He and His family were sent into exile. In the bitter cold of winter, they travelled along the western mountains of Persia towards Baghdád, then a city in the Ottoman Empire and today the capital of ‘Iráq. Words cannot describe their sufferings as they walked hundreds of kilometres on snow and ice‑covered ground on their way to that fate‑laden city.

The fame of Bahá’u’lláh soon spread throughout Baghdád and other cities of the region, and more and more people came to the door of this exiled Prisoner to receive His blessings. But there were a few who became jealous of His fame. Among them was Bahá’u’lláh’s own half‑brother Mírzá Yaḥyá, who was living under His loving care. Mírzá Yaḥyá’s plotting caused disunity among the followers of the Báb and brought great sadness to Bahá’u’lláh. One night, without telling anyone, Bahá’u’lláh left His home and went to the mountains of Kurdistán. There He lived a secluded life engaged in prayer and meditation. He stayed in a small cave and subsisted on the simplest of foods. No one in that area knew His origin, and no one knew His name. But, then, gradually the people of the region began to speak of the “Nameless One”, a great Saint who had knowledge bestowed upon Him by God. When the news of this Holy Personage reached Bahá’u’lláh’s oldest Son, ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, He immediately recognised the signs of His beloved Father. Letters were sent with a special messenger entreating Bahá’u’lláh to return to Baghdád. This He accepted, bringing to an end a period of painful separation that had lasted two years.

During Bahá’u’lláh’s absence, the conditions of the Bábí community had declined rapidly. In the seven years He lived in Baghdád following His return from the mountains, Bahá’u’lláh infused the persecuted and confused followers of the Báb with a new spirit. Although He had not yet announced His own great station, the power and wisdom of His words began to win the loyalty of an increasing number of Bábís and the admiration of people of every walk of life. But the fanatical Muslim clergy could not bear to see the tremendous influence Bahá’u’lláh had on such a large number of souls. They complained and complained to the authorities until the government of Persia joined hands with some of the officials of the Ottoman Empire to remove Bahá’u’lláh farther away from His homeland, this time to the city of Constantinople.

April of 1863 was a month of great sadness for the population of Baghdád. The One Whom they had grown to love was leaving their city, heading for what to them was an unknown destination. Just prior to His departure, Bahá’u’lláh moved to a garden on the outskirts of the city, raised His tent and for twelve days received the stream of visitors who gathered to say farewell. The followers of the Báb came to this garden with heavy hearts; some would accompany Bahá’u’lláh on this next stage of His exile, though many would have to stay behind and be deprived of close association with Him. But God had not willed that this occasion would be one of sadness. The doors of His infinite bounty were opened wide, and Bahá’u’lláh proclaimed to those around Him that He was the One foretold by the Báb—He Whom God would make manifest. Sadness gave way to boundless joy; hearts were uplifted and souls were enkindled with the fire of His love. This twelve‑day period in April is celebrated everywhere as the Festival of Riḍván, the anniversary of the declaration by Bahá’u’lláh of His world‑embracing Mission.

Constantinople was the seat of the Ottoman Empire. Here again, over just four months, Bahá’u’lláh’s great wisdom and personal charm began to attract an increasing number of people. “He must not stay in Constantinople any longer,” murmured the fanatical Muslim clergy, who convinced the authorities to exile Him to the town of Adrianople. In Adrianople, where He remained for four and a half years, Bahá’u’lláh wrote Tablets to the kings and the rulers of the world calling on them to abandon the ways of oppression and dedicate themselves to the welfare of their people. Then His enemies conceived a most cruel punishment. He and His family would be exiled to ‘Akká, which at the time was the worst penal colony in the entire empire. “Surely He will perish in the harsh conditions of that prison‑city,” thought the feeble‑minded men who imagined they could stop the plan God Himself had set in motion.

The hardships Bahá’u’lláh suffered in ‘Akká are too many to recount. He lacked every means of comfort and was surrounded by enemies day and night. But the conditions of imprisonment gradually changed. The inhabitants of ‘Akká and its government became convinced of the innocence of the small band of Bahá’ís who had been exiled to their city. Once again, people were attracted by the wisdom and love of this extraordinary Personage, even though the majority did not understand His great station. After some nine years, the doors of the prison‑city were opened to Bahá’u’lláh and His followers. His beloved Son ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá was able to secure a dignified place for His Father to live outside the city walls, and eventually it became possible for ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá to rent a home in the countryside where Bahá’u’lláh was able to spend the remaining thirteen years of His life in relative peace and tranquillity. We now know this house as the Mansion of Bahjí, and there He passed away in May of 1892 at the height of His majesty and glory.

Bahá’u’lláh raised the banner of universal peace and fellowship and revealed the Word of God. Although His enemies combined their forces against Him, He was victorious over them as God had promised Him when under chains in the dark dungeon in Ṭihrán. During His own lifetime, His Message revived the hearts of thousands of people. And today, His teachings continue to spread throughout the world. Nothing can prevent Him from achieving His ultimate goal, which is to unify humankind in one universal Cause, in one common Faith.


# Book 4: The Life of the Báb

## Part 1

The Dispensation of the Báb began in 1844 and lasted only nine years. Its primary purpose was to prepare the way for the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Although the period of the Báb’s Ministry was brief, the forces released by His Revelation were so intense that their effect will be felt for hundreds of generations to come.

The Báb, Whose name was Siyyid ‘Alí‑Muḥammad, was born on 20 October 1819 in Shíráz, a city in southern Írán, also known as Persia. Most of the people in Persia belong to a branch of Islám that awaits the appearance of a promised One of God called the Qá’im. The title “Qá’im” means “He Who ariseth”.

The Báb came from a distinguished family that traced its ancestry to Muḥammad, the Prophet of Islám. His father passed away when He was a small child, and He was raised by His maternal uncle. The Báb was endowed with innate knowledge and did not need schooling, yet, abiding by His uncle’s wishes, He entered school at an early age. Soon, however, His teacher recognised the Báb’s great capacity and realised that he had nothing to teach this extraordinary child. He has told the following story about the Báb’s school days:

“One day I asked the Báb to recite the opening words of the Qur’án . . . He hesitated, pleading that unless He were told what the words signified, He would in no wise attempt to pronounce them. I pretended not to know their meaning. ‘I know what these words signify,’ observed my pupil; ‘by your leave, I will explain them.’ He spoke with such knowledge and fluency that I was struck with amazement. . . . The sweetness of His utterance still lingers in my memory. I felt impelled to take Him back to His uncle and to deliver into his hands the Trust he had committed to my care. I determined to tell him how unworthy I felt to teach so remarkable a child. I found His uncle alone in his office. ‘I have brought Him back to you,’ I said, ‘and commit Him to your vigilant protection. He is not to be treated as a mere child, for in Him I can already discern evidences of that mysterious power which the Revelation of the Qá’im alone can reveal. It is incumbent upon you to surround Him with your most loving care. Keep Him in your house, for He, verily, stands in no need of teachers such as I.’ His uncle sternly rebuked the Báb. ‘Have You forgotten my instructions?’ he said. ‘Have I not already admonished You to follow the example of Your fellow‑pupils, to observe silence, and to listen attentively to every word spoken by Your teacher?’ Having obtained His promise to abide faithfully by his instructions, he bade the Báb return to His school. The soul of that child could not, however, be restrained by the stern admonitions of His uncle. No discipline could repress the flow of His intuitive knowledge. Day after day He continued to manifest such remarkable evidences of superhuman wisdom as I am powerless to recount.”

At last the Báb was allowed to leave school. He then began to work with His uncle as a merchant in Búshihr, a city southwest of Shíráz. During that time, the Báb married. He and His wife had a son named Aḥmad, who died in infancy the year before the Báb declared Himself to be the promised Qá’im.

As a youth, the Báb showed signs of a power and greatness that no one could rival. The singular qualities that would distinguish Him throughout His swift and tragic Ministry were already manifest. The Guardian refers to Him as “the gentle, the youthful and irresistible person of the Báb, matchless in His meekness, imperturbable in His serenity, magnetic in His utterance”. The sections that follow can but inadequately describe the events of His life. Yet even this brief account should ignite in our hearts a spark from the fire of love that He enkindled in the hearts of thousands upon thousands in Persia and beyond.

## Part 2

Before the Báb declared His Mission, several people around the world already knew deep in their hearts that a new Day of God was about to dawn. Among them was Siyyid Káẓim, a saintly personage who lived in the city of Karbilá in ‘Iráq. Siyyid Káẓim had many students, and he devoted his life to preparing them for the long‑awaited advent of the Qá’im. He repeatedly told them that, upon his death, they should leave their homes and, with hearts free of all earthly desires, go forth in search of the promised Beloved.

After the passing of Siyyid Káẓim, a most distinguished student of his, Mullá Ḥusayn, spent forty days in prayer and meditation, during which he opened wide his heart to God’s inspiration. He then left ‘Iráq with two companions and began his quest. He went first to Búshihr. He did not remain there long, however, for he felt pulled irresistibly northwards, towards Shíráz. As he approached the city, he asked his two companions to go to a certain mosque and to wait for him to join them there.

A few hours before sunset on that day, just outside the gate of Shíráz, he met a youthful Personage Who welcomed him and invited him to His home to refresh himself following his long and difficult journey. Mullá Ḥusayn was deeply impressed by the gentle yet compelling manner in which this extraordinary Youth spoke. He went with Him, and soon they arrived at the door of a modest house. They entered and proceeded to the upper room. The gracious Host ordered a water‑jug to be brought so that His guest could wash away the dust from his travels. Then, He Himself prepared tea and offered it to Mullá Ḥusayn. After these acts of hospitality, He began to speak. The details of that historic conversation were later recounted by Mullá Ḥusayn:

“It was about an hour after sunset when my youthful Host began to converse with me. ‘Whom, after Siyyid Káẓim,’ He asked me, ‘do you regard as his successor and your leader?’ ‘At the hour of his death,’ I replied, ‘our departed teacher insistently exhorted us to forsake our homes, to scatter far and wide, in quest of the promised Beloved. I have, accordingly, journeyed to Persia, have arisen to accomplish his will, and am still engaged in my quest.’ ‘Has your teacher,’ He further inquired, ‘given you any detailed indications as to the distinguishing features of the promised One?’ ‘Yes,’ I replied, ‘He is of a pure lineage, is of illustrious descent, and of the seed of Fáṭimih. As to His age, He is more than twenty and less than thirty. He is endowed with innate knowledge. He is of medium height, abstains from smoking, and is free from bodily deficiency.’ He paused for a while and then with vibrant voice declared: ‘Behold, all these signs are manifest in Me!’ He then considered each of the above‑mentioned signs separately, and conclusively demonstrated that each and all were applicable to His person.”

That evening, the Báb demonstrated to Mullá Ḥusayn, with clear and unmistakable proofs, that He was the promised Qá’im. He revealed, with astonishing rapidity, the first part of His commentary on the Súrih of Joseph, a significant chapter of the Qur’án. He then addressed Mullá Ḥusayn in these words:

“O thou who art the first to believe in Me! Verily I say, I am the Báb, the Gate of God, and thou art the Bábu’l‑Báb, the gate of that Gate. Eighteen souls must, in the beginning, spontaneously and of their own accord, accept Me and recognise the truth of My Revelation. Unwarned and uninvited, each of these must seek independently to find Me. And when their number is complete, one of them must needs be chosen to accompany Me on My pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina. There I shall deliver the Message of God to the Sharíf of Mecca. I then shall return to Kúfih, where again, in the mosque of that holy city, I shall manifest His Cause. It is incumbent upon you not to divulge, either to your companions or to any other soul, that which you have seen and heard.”

This glorious Revelation filled Mullá Ḥusayn’s soul with excitement and joy, with awe and wonder. “How feeble and impotent, how dejected and timid, I had felt previously!” he later said. “Then I could neither write nor walk, so tremulous were my hands and feet. Now, however, the knowledge of His Revelation had galvanised my being. I felt possessed of such courage and power that were the world, all its peoples and its potentates, to rise against me, I would, alone and undaunted, withstand their onslaught. The universe seemed but a handful of dust in my grasp. I seemed to be the Voice of Gabriel personified, calling unto all mankind: ‘Awake, for, lo! the morning Light has broken. Arise, for His Cause is made manifest. The portal of His grace is open wide; enter therein, O peoples of the world! For He Who is your promised One is come!’” The Declaration of the Báb took place on the eve of 23 May 1844. He was twenty‑five years old. Decades later, on the occasion of the anniversary of the Báb’s Declaration, ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá addressed those gathered in the following words:

“This is 23 May, the anniversary of the message and Declaration of the Báb. It is a blessed day and the dawn of manifestation, for the appearance of the Báb was the early light of the true morn, . . . it is a blessed day, the inception of the heavenly bounty, the beginning of the divine effulgence. On this day in 1844 the Báb was sent forth heralding and proclaiming the Kingdom of God, announcing the glad tidings of the coming of Bahá’u’lláh and withstanding the opposition of the whole Persian nation.”

## Part 3

After Mullá Ḥusayn, seventeen other individuals sought and independently found their heart’s desire, the Báb. Each was guided by God to recognise the truth of the newborn Revelation, some through visions or dreams, some through prayer, and others during moments of meditation. All but one of these blessed souls attained the Báb’s presence in Shíráz. The one who did not meet Him was a brilliant and gifted poetess called Ṭáhirih. She came to know of the Báb through a dream, recognised Him as the promised Qá’im, and became a valiant promoter of His Cause. The eighteenth person to join the ranks of His followers was a twenty‑two‑year‑old youth known as Quddús. Although young, Quddús possessed an exemplary character; few could equal him in courage and faith. These first believers, together with Mullá Ḥusayn, were declared by the Báb the eighteen “Letters of the Living”.

Soon after the number of the Letters of the Living was complete, the Báb called Mullá Ḥusayn to His presence and gave him the following instructions: “The days of our companionship are approaching their end. My Covenant with you is now accomplished. Gird up the loins of endeavour and arise to diffuse My Cause. Be not dismayed at the sight of the degeneracy and perversity of this generation, for the Lord of the Covenant shall assuredly assist you. Verily, He shall surround you with His loving protection, and shall lead you from victory to victory. Even as the cloud that rains its bounty upon the earth, traverse the land from end to end, and shower upon its people the blessings which the Almighty, in His mercy, has deigned to confer upon you. . . . In this pilgrimage upon which We are soon to embark, We have chosen Quddús as Our companion. We have left you behind to face the onslaught of a fierce and relentless enemy. Rest assured, however, that a bounty unspeakably glorious shall be conferred upon you. Follow the course of your journey towards the north, and visit on your way Iṣfáhán, Káshán, Qum, and Ṭihrán. Beseech almighty Providence that He may graciously enable you to attain, in that capital, the seat of true sovereignty, and to enter the mansion of the Beloved. A secret lies hidden in that city. When made manifest, it shall turn the earth into paradise. My hope is that you may partake of its grace and recognise its splendour.”

Having given Mullá Ḥusayn instructions to go to Ṭihrán, the Báb summoned the other Letters of the Living to His presence and assigned to each one a special mission. In His parting words, He called upon them to lay aside every earthly desire and scatter far and wide to proclaim His Cause. He addressed them saying:

“O My beloved friends! You are the bearers of the name of God in this Day. You have been chosen as the repositories of His mystery. It behoves each one of you to manifest the attributes of God, and to exemplify by your deeds and words the signs of His righteousness, His power and glory. The very members of your body must bear witness to the loftiness of your purpose, the integrity of your life, the reality of your faith, and the exalted character of your devotion. For verily I say, this is the Day spoken of by God in His Book: ‘On that day will We set a seal upon their mouths; yet shall their hands speak unto Us, and their feet shall bear witness to that which they shall have done.’ Ponder the words of Jesus addressed to His disciples, as He sent them forth to propagate the Cause of God. In words such as these, He bade them arise and fulfil their mission: ‘Ye are even as the fire which in the darkness of the night has been kindled upon the mountaintop. Let your light shine before the eyes of men. Such must be the purity of your character and the degree of your renunciation, that the people of the earth may through you recognise and be drawn closer to the heavenly Father who is the Source of purity and grace. For none has seen the Father who is in heaven. You who are His spiritual children must by your deeds exemplify His virtues, and witness to His glory. You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt have lost its savour, wherewith shall it be salted? Such must be the degree of your detachment, that into whatever city you enter to proclaim and teach the Cause of God, you should in no wise expect either meat or reward from its people. Nay, when you depart out of that city, you should shake the dust from off your feet. As you have entered it pure and undefiled, so must you depart from that city. For verily I say, the heavenly Father is ever with you and keeps watch over you. If you be faithful to Him, He will assuredly deliver into your hands all the treasures of the earth, and will exalt you above all the rulers and kings of the world.’ O My Letters! Verily I say, immensely exalted is this Day above the days of the Apostles of old. Nay, immeasurable is the difference! You are the witnesses of the Dawn of the promised Day of God. You are the partakers of the mystic chalice of His Revelation. Gird up the loins of endeavour, and be mindful of the words of God as revealed in His Book: ‘Lo, the Lord thy God is come, and with Him is the company of His angels arrayed before Him!’ Purge your hearts of worldly desires, and let angelic virtues be your adorning. Strive that by your deeds you may bear witness to the truth of these words of God, and beware lest, by ‘turning back,’ He may ‘change you for another people,’ who ‘shall not be your like,’ and who shall take from you the Kingdom of God. The days when idle worship was deemed sufficient are ended. The time is come when naught but the purest motive, supported by deeds of stainless purity, can ascend to the throne of the Most High and be acceptable unto Him. ‘The good word riseth up unto Him, and the righteous deed will cause it to be exalted before Him.’ You are the lowly, of whom God has thus spoken in His Book: ‘And We desire to show favour to those who were brought low in the land, and to make them spiritual leaders among men, and to make them Our heirs.’ You have been called to this station; you will attain to it, only if you arise to trample beneath your feet every earthly desire, and endeavour to become those ‘honoured servants of His who speak not till He hath spoken, and who do His bidding.’ You are the first Letters that have been generated from the Primal Point, the first Springs that have welled out from the Source of this Revelation. Beseech the Lord your God to grant that no earthly entanglements, no worldly affections, no ephemeral pursuits, may tarnish the purity, or embitter the sweetness, of that grace which flows through you. I am preparing you for the advent of a mighty Day. Exert your utmost endeavour that, in the world to come, I, who am now instructing you, may, before the mercy‑seat of God, rejoice in your deeds and glory in your achievements. The secret of the Day that is to come is now concealed. It can neither be divulged nor estimated. The newly born babe of that Day excels the wisest and most venerable men of this time, and the lowliest and most unlearned of that period shall surpass in understanding the most erudite and accomplished divines of this age. Scatter throughout the length and breadth of this land, and, with steadfast feet and sanctified hearts, prepare the way for His coming. Heed not your weaknesses and frailty; fix your gaze upon the invincible power of the Lord, your God, the Almighty. Has He not, in past days, caused Abraham, in spite of His seeming helplessness, to triumph over the forces of Nimrod? Has He not enabled Moses, whose staff was His only companion, to vanquish Pharaoh and his hosts? Has He not established the ascendancy of Jesus, poor and lowly as He was in the eyes of men, over the combined forces of the Jewish people? Has He not subjected the barbarous and militant tribes of Arabia to the holy and transforming discipline of Muḥammad, His Prophet? Arise in His name, put your trust wholly in Him, and be assured of ultimate victory.”

## Part 4

In October 1844 the Báb, accompanied by Quddús, set out for pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina. These two cities, located in Saudi Arabia, are considered sacred by the followers of Islám. The Báb and His companion embarked on a vessel in Búshihr, which took them around the Arabian Peninsula, and arrived near Mecca about two months later. While in Mecca, the Báb wrote a letter to the Sharíf, the head of the city and protector of its holy shrine. In that letter, He clearly explained His Mission and called upon the Sharíf to accept His Cause. But the Sharíf, who was busy with his own affairs, failed to respond to the divine Message. The Báb then travelled with Quddús from Mecca to Medina, where the mortal remains of the Prophet Muḥammad are enshrined. After visiting that holy city, they made their way back to Persia by boat. They landed in Búshihr, and the Báb instructed Quddús to proceed to Shíráz:

“The days of your companionship with Me are drawing to a close. The hour of separation has struck, a separation which no reunion will follow except in the Kingdom of God . . . In the streets of Shíráz, indignities will be heaped upon you, and the severest injuries will afflict your body. You will survive the ignominious behaviour of your foes, and will attain the presence of Him who is the one object of our adoration and love. In His presence you will forget all the harm and disgrace that shall have befallen you. The hosts of the Unseen will hasten forth to assist you, and will proclaim to all the world your heroism and glory. Yours will be the ineffable joy of quaffing the cup of martyrdom for His sake. I, too, shall tread the path of sacrifice, and will join you in the realm of eternity.”

## Part 5

In Shíráz, Quddús began to share the Message of the Báb with great fervour. But soon he faced opposition from the Islámic clergy and the governor of the province, who ordered his arrest, along with two of his companions. A cruel and wicked man, the governor commanded that they be publicly punished. Their beards were burnt, and their noses pierced and threaded with a cord, and then, in this disgraceful condition, they were led through the streets. “It will be an object lesson to the people of Shíráz,” was the decree of the governor, “who will know what the penalty of heresy will be.”9 After suffering such indignities, Quddús and his companions were expelled from the city, having been warned they would be put to death if they attempted to return. Thus did these heroic souls earn the honour of being the first to face persecution in Persia for the sake of their new Faith. ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá has referred to the thousands who would later be persecuted in the path of their Beloved, the Báb, in these words:

“. . . they suffered the most grievous difficulties and severe ordeals. They withstood the tests with wonderful power and sublime heroism. Thousands were cast into prison, punished, persecuted and martyred. Their homes were pillaged and destroyed, their possessions confiscated. They sacrificed their lives most willingly and remained unshaken in their faith to the very end. Those wonderful souls are the lamps of God, the stars of sanctity shining gloriously from the eternal horizon of the will of God.”

Having ordered so unjust a punishment for Quddús and his companions, the governor turned his anger towards the Báb. He sent his guards on horseback to Búshihr with instructions to arrest Him and bring Him in chains to Shíráz. In the meantime, the Báb had left Búshihr for Shíráz by horse. It was in the wilderness between these two cities that the mounted escort met Him. Much later, the leader of the escort told the story of that encounter:

“As we approached him, he saluted us and inquired as to our destination. I thought it best to conceal from him the truth, and replied that in this vicinity we had been commanded by the governor to conduct a certain inquiry. He smilingly observed: ‘The governor has sent you to arrest Me. Here am I; do with Me as you please. By coming out to meet you, I have curtailed the length of your march, and have made it easier for you to find Me.’ I was startled by his remarks and marvelled at his candour and straightforwardness. I could not explain, however, his readiness to subject himself, of his own accord, to the severe discipline of government officials, and to risk thereby his own life and safety. I tried to ignore him, and was preparing to leave, when he approached me and said: ‘I swear by the righteousness of Him who created man, distinguished him from among the rest of His creatures, and caused his heart to be made the seat of His sovereignty and knowledge, that all My life I have uttered no word but the truth, and had no other desire except the welfare and advancement of My fellowmen. I have disdained My own ease and have avoided being the cause of pain or sorrow to anyone. I know that you are seeking Me. I prefer to deliver Myself into your hands, rather than subject you and your companions to unnecessary annoyance for My sake.’ These words moved me profoundly. I instinctively dismounted from my horse, and, kissing his stirrups, addressed him in these words: ‘O light of the eyes of the Prophet of God! I adjure you, by Him who has created you and endowed you with such loftiness and power, to grant my request and to answer my prayer. I beseech you to escape from this place and to flee from the ruthless and despicable governor of this province. I dread his machinations against you; I rebel at the idea of being made the instrument of his malignant designs against so innocent and noble a descendant of the Prophet of God. . . .’ To my earnest entreaty he gave this answer: ‘May the Lord your God requite you for your magnanimity and noble intention. No one knows the mystery of My Cause; no one can fathom its secrets. Never will I turn My face away from the decree of God. He alone is My sure Stronghold, My Stay and My Refuge. Until My last hour is at hand, none dare assail Me, none can frustrate the plan of the Almighty. And when My hour is come, how great will be My joy to quaff the cup of martyrdom in His name! Here am I; deliver Me into the hands of your master. Be not afraid, for no one will blame you.’ I bowed my consent and carried out his desire.”

The Báb immediately continued on His journey to Shíráz. Free and without chains, He went before His escort, which followed Him respectfully. Arriving in Shíráz, the Báb was brought in front of the governor, who treated Him with shameful cruelty. He publicly rebuked and criticised the Báb. He then released Him into the custody of His uncle. Although the Báb was allowed to return to His home, His freedom was restricted. Only the members of His family and a few others were permitted to see Him. Yet, in spite of attempts by the governor and the clergy to put an end to His influence, the number of His followers rapidly rose.

News of the Báb’s momentous Declaration became so widespread that the king of Persia decided to send one of his most trusted and knowledgeable scholars to Shíráz to investigate the situation. A guest in the home of the governor himself, this learned man met with the Báb on three occasions. He was determined to refute the Báb’s arguments, but at each meeting he grew increasingly impressed by His knowledge, eloquence and wisdom. By the third meeting, Vaḥíd—the name by which this scholar would become known—was utterly convinced of the Youth’s divine Station. Vaḥíd would later explain that, during his meetings with the Báb, he felt as “lowly as the dust beneath His feet”. He immediately sent a written report to the king’s court and left Shíráz at the instructions of the Báb. From that day forward, he dedicated his energies to the promotion of His Cause and eventually laid down his life in the path of his Beloved.

With the Báb’s rising popularity and fame, the governor’s anger mounted. He again ordered His arrest. This time the governor intended to put the Báb to death, and he sent off a police official to seize Him from His uncle’s home in the middle of the night. On that very night, however, a plague broke out in Shíráz and the entire city was thrown into a state of panic. Within a few hours, over a hundred people had died from the dreaded disease. Screams of pain and grief could be heard in the streets, and the inhabitants of the city were fleeing in confusion. Unsure what to do, the official brought the Báb to his own home. He was distressed to learn upon his arrival that his son was dying from the disease. In despair he threw himself at the feet of the Báb and begged to be forgiven. When his son was miraculously cured, the official recognised the Hand of God in the outbreak and pleaded with the governor to release the Báb. The governor, fearing for the lives of his family and others, accepted on condition that the Báb would leave Shíráz.

In the fall of 1846 the Báb departed for Iṣfáhán, a city north of Shíráz. As He said farewell to His uncle, He told him: “I will again meet you amid the mountains of Ádhirbáyján, from whence I will send you forth to obtain the crown of martyrdom. I Myself will follow you, together with one of My loyal disciples, and will join you in the realm of eternity.”

## Part 6

As the Báb neared the city of Iṣfáhán, He wrote a letter to the governor of that province asking him to designate the place where He should live. This governor, who was pure‑hearted and just, was so moved by the courtesy and style of the Báb’s letter that he instructed the highest religious official of the province to receive the Báb in his home and to give Him a warm and generous reception.

During the Báb’s stay in Iṣfáhán, crowds of people came to see Him every day and listen to His words. His growing influence, however, soon aroused the jealousy of the local clergy, who feared losing the position of power and authority that they had long occupied. They began to spread rumours about the Báb, hoping to excite suspicion against Him. When this failed, they devised a plan to do away with Him. The governor, aware of the clergy’s schemes, invited the Báb to stay in his own home. There, during hours spent in conversation with Him, the governor came to understand the greatness of His Revelation. One day, while seated with the Báb in the garden of his home, the governor addressed Him in these words:

“The almighty Giver has endowed me with great riches. I know not how best to use them. Now that I have, by the aid of God, been led to recognise this Revelation, it is my ardent desire to consecrate all my possessions to the furtherance of its interests and the spread of its fame. It is my intention to proceed, by Your leave, to Ṭihrán, and to do my best to win to this Cause the king, whose confidence in me is firm and unshaken.”

To this outpouring of love and devotion, the Báb replied:

“May God requite you for your noble intentions. So lofty a purpose is to Me even more precious than the act itself. Your days and Mine are numbered, however; they are too short to enable Me to witness, and allow you to achieve, the realisation of your hopes. Not by the means which you fondly imagine will an almighty Providence accomplish the triumph of His Faith. Through the poor and lowly of this land, by the blood which these shall have shed in His path, will the omnipotent Sovereign ensure the preservation and consolidate the foundation of His Cause. That same God will, in the world to come, place upon your head the crown of immortal glory, and will shower upon you His inestimable blessings. Of the span of your earthly life there remain only three months and nine days, after which you shall, with faith and certitude, hasten to your eternal abode.”

Three months and nine days later the governor of Iṣfáhán passed away, exactly as the Báb had foretold. Shortly after his death, his successor sent a message to the king in Ṭihrán asking him what he should do with the Báb. The king ordered him to send the Báb in disguise to the capital, where the king intended to meet Him. Thus, in the company of a mounted escort, the Báb began His journey towards Ṭihrán.

## Part 7

The prime minister of Persia at that time was a selfish and incompetent man. He was afraid that, if the Báb came to Ṭihrán and met the king, he would lose his own position and power. Therefore, he convinced the king to change his orders and send the Báb to the province of Ádhirbáyján in the northwest of the country.

Arriving under escort in Tabríz, the capital of the province, in June 1847, the Báb was conducted to a house that had been chosen for His confinement. A detachment of soldiers guarded the entrance of the house. No one was permitted to see Him, except two of His followers. The people of the city were warned that whoever tried to meet the Báb would be thrown into prison and all his possessions would be seized.

The Báb stayed in Tabríz for a short time and was then transferred to the fortress of Máh‑Kú, situated in the mountains of Ádhirbáyján far away from large cities and towns. The prime minister had thought that, banished to this remote and inhospitable corner of the country, the Báb would lose His influence and His Faith would be forgotten. But he did not realise that, once the lamp of the religion of God had been lit, no human hand could put out its flame. Through His majesty and loving‑kindness, the Báb soon won the respect and admiration of both the official in charge of the fortress and the people of the region.

Thus were the severe restrictions placed on the Báb gradually relaxed and the doors of the fortress opened to His followers, who arrived in increasing numbers from different parts of Persia to see Him. During the period of His imprisonment in Máh‑Kú, the Báb revealed the Persian Bayán, the most important of all His works. In that book, He established the laws of His Dispensation, plainly and directly announced the advent of another Revelation greater than His Own, and urged His followers to seek and find “Him Whom God shall make manifest”. One of the early believers who lived in Máh‑Kú at the time described the revelation of the Persian Bayán in these words:

“The voice of the Báb, as He dictated the teachings and principles of His Faith, could be clearly heard by those who were dwelling at the foot of the mountain. The melody of His chanting, the rhythmic flow of the verses which streamed from His lips caught our ears and penetrated into our very souls. Mountain and valley reechoed the majesty of His voice. Our hearts vibrated in their depths to the appeal of His utterance.”

When the prime minister learned that the Báb had won the love and support of the people of Máh‑Kú and that His Faith was continuing to spread throughout the country, he issued an order for the Báb to be transferred to the fortress of Chihríq. There too, however, the people of the surrounding towns and the official of the fortress were attracted to the magnetic personality of the Báb. Even some of the most distinguished clergymen of the region accepted the new Faith and left their privileged positions to join the ranks of His followers.

As soon as the prime minister heard about events unfolding in Chihríq, he gave orders to have the Báb sent immediately to Tabríz. A meeting of the religious authorities was called to examine the Báb and find an effective way to put an end to His influence. It was now around July 1848. At that meeting, the clergy and government officials tried to humiliate the Báb but were overpowered by His majesty. When asked, “Whom do you claim to be, and what is the message which you have brought?” He declared:

“I am, I am, I am the Promised One! I am the One Whose name you have for a thousand years invoked, at Whose mention you have risen, Whose advent you have longed to witness, and the hour of Whose Revelation you have prayed God to hasten. Verily, I say, it is incumbent upon the peoples of both the East and the West to obey My word and to pledge allegiance to My person.”

A few days after the meeting, the Báb was taken back to Chihríq. His enemies had hoped that, in Tabríz, they would force Him to give up His Mission. But in the end they decided that, as long as the Báb remained alive, it would be impossible to stem the tide of His rising influence among the people of Persia.

## Part 8

Referring to the Báb, ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá states:

“As for the Báb—may my soul be His sacrifice!—it was at a young age, that is, in the twenty‑fifth year of His blessed life, that He arose to proclaim His Cause. . . . Alone, He undertook a task that can scarcely be conceived, for the Persians are known throughout the world for their religious fanaticism. This illustrious Being arose with such power as to shake the foundations of the religious laws, customs, manners, morals, and habits of Persia, and instituted a new law, faith, and religion. Though the eminent men of the State, the majority of the people, and the leaders of religion arose one and all to destroy and annihilate Him, He single‑handedly withstood them and set all of Persia in motion. How numerous the divines, the leaders, and the inhabitants of that land who with perfect joy and gladness offered up their lives in His path and hastened to the field of martyrdom!

“The government, the nation, the clergy, and prominent leaders sought to extinguish His light, but to no avail. At last His moon rose, His star shone forth, His foundation was secured, and His horizon was flooded with light. He trained a large multitude through divine education and exerted a marvellous influence upon the thoughts, customs, morals, and manners of the Persians. He proclaimed the glad‑tidings of the manifestation of the Sun of Bahá to all His followers and readied them for faith and certitude.

“The manifestation of such marvellous signs and mighty undertakings, the influence exerted upon the thoughts and minds of the people, the laying of the foundations of progress, and the establishment of the prerequisites of success and prosperity by a young merchant constitute the greatest proof that He was a universal Educator—a fact that no fair‑minded person would ever hesitate to acknowledge.”

## Part 9

In the year 1850, the new prime minister of Persia, as bloodthirsty as the previous one, ordered the execution of the Báb. Again, the Báb was brought from Chihríq to Tabríz, where He was placed in a cell next to a courtyard that was to be the scene of His martyrdom.

As the Báb was being conducted to the cell, a youth forced his way through the crowd and threw himself at the feet of the Báb. “Send me not from Thee, O Master,” pleaded the youth. He begged the Báb to be allowed to follow Him wherever He might go. “Arise,” answered the Báb, “and rest assured that you will be with Me. Tomorrow you shall witness what God has decreed.”18 The youth was immediately arrested, together with two of his companions, and taken to the same cell in which the Báb and His secretary were confined. This young man became known as Anís.

Anís had learned of the new Message from the Báb Himself during His first brief stay in Tabríz—this, in spite of the severe restrictions that, at the time, had been imposed on His contact with the city’s inhabitants. So strong was the fire of the love of God burning in Anís’ heart that his only desire was to sacrifice himself for his new Faith. But his stepfather, alarmed at his son’s behaviour, restricted Anis’ movements and kept him under strict watch in his home. There Anís spent weeks in prayer and meditation, imploring God to allow him to attain, once again, the presence of his Beloved. One day, while lost in prayer, he had an extraordinary vision. He saw the Báb standing before him and calling to him. Anís threw himself at His feet. “Rejoice,” the Báb said to him, “the hour is approaching when, in this very city, I shall be suspended before the eyes of the multitude and shall fall a victim to the fire of the enemy. I shall choose no one except you to share with Me the cup of martyrdom. Rest assured that this promise which I give you shall be fulfilled.”19 And so Anís began to wait patiently, knowing that the day would soon arrive when he would be reunited with his Beloved. Now, at last, he had attained his heart’s desire.

That evening the Báb was aglow with joy. He spoke with cheerfulness to Anís and the other three loyal followers with Him in His prison cell. “Tomorrow,” He said to them, “will be the day of My martyrdom. Would that one of you might now arise and, with his own hands, end My life. I prefer to be slain by the hand of a friend rather than by that of the enemy.” None of them could think of taking so precious a life, and they remained silent, tears running from their eyes. Then, suddenly, Anís sprang to his feet and said he was ready to obey whatever the Báb might command. “This same youth who has risen to comply with My wish,” the Báb declared, “will, together with Me, suffer martyrdom. Him will I choose to share with Me its crown.”

Early the next morning, on 9 July 1850, the Báb was working with His secretary when an official suddenly interrupted their conversation. “Not until I have said to him all those things that I wish to say,” the Báb told the official, “can any earthly power silence Me. Though all the world be armed against Me, yet shall they be powerless to deter Me from fulfilling, to the last word, My intention.”21 But the official did not understand the significance of the Báb’s words. He made no reply and instructed the secretary to follow him. The Báb was then taken from His cell to the homes of the three most high‑ranking clergymen in the city who, without hesitation, signed the decree for His execution.

Later that morning the Báb was conducted back to the courtyard where a crowd of nearly ten thousand people had gathered on the rooftops to witness His execution. He was delivered into the hands of Sám Khán, the commander of the regiment of soldiers ordered to execute Him. But Sám Khán was ill at ease. He was seized with fear that his actions would bring the wrath of God upon him. “I profess the Christian Faith,” he explained to the Báb, “and entertain no ill will against you. If your Cause be the Cause of Truth, enable me to free myself from the obligation to shed your blood.” “Follow your instructions,” the Báb replied, “and if your intention be sincere, the Almighty is surely able to relieve you from your perplexity.”

Sám Khán ordered his men to drive an iron nail into the wall and attach two ropes to it. From these ropes, the Báb and Anís were suspended. The regiment then arranged itself in three rows, each of two hundred and fifty men. One after the other, each row opened fire. When the smoke from the seven hundred and fifty rifles cleared away, the astonished crowd beheld a scene they could hardly believe. Anís was standing before them alive and unhurt, and the Báb had disappeared from their sight. The bullets had only cut the ropes from which they had been suspended. A frantic search for the Báb began. Eventually He was found seated in His cell, completing His interrupted conversation with His secretary. “I have finished My conversation,” the Báb said. “Now you may proceed to fulfil your intention.”

Stunned by what had taken place, Sám Khán refused to allow his men to bring injury to the Báb and ordered them to leave the courtyard. Another regiment was called up to carry out the execution. Once more the Báb and Anís were suspended in the courtyard, and the soldiers opened fire. This time the bullets found their mark. The bodies of the Báb and Anís were completely shattered; yet their faces remained almost untouched. As the regiment was preparing to open fire, the Báb addressed these final words to the gazing multitude:

“O wayward generation! Had you believed in Me every one of you would have followed the example of this youth, who stood in rank above most of you, and willingly would have sacrificed himself in My path. The day will come when you will have recognised Me; that day I shall have ceased to be with you.”

## Summary

The Báb was born on 20 October 1819 in Shíráz, a city in the southern part of Írán. He was still a child when His father passed away. He was raised by His uncle, who placed Him in school at an early age.

The Báb’s teacher quickly recognised His great capacity and realised that he was incapable of teaching such an extraordinary child. The Báb was endowed by God with innate knowledge.

At that time the people of Írán were awaiting the coming of a new Messenger of God. They prayed that He would soon be made manifest, bringing with Him a period of peace and justice on earth. Many left their homes in search of the promised One.

On the eve of 23 May 1844, a young man arrived in Shíráz in search of the promised One. The Báb met him outside the gates of the city and invited him to His home to refresh himself after his long journey. There the Báb declared that He was the One Whose coming the people were so eagerly awaiting.

The word “báb” means “gate” or “door”. The Báb announced that soon another Messenger of God would appear Who would unite all the peoples of the world in one family. The Báb was like a door leading humanity to a new and glorious future.

The number of the Báb’s followers quickly grew. Throughout all of Írán, they began to spread the divine teachings He revealed.

Soon the government authorities and the clergy, who were afraid of losing their power over the people, rose up against the new Faith of God. They imprisoned the Báb in a fortress in a remote part of the country, far away from His followers.

The Báb’s followers suffered the most cruel persecution. They were attacked, beaten, and thrown into prison. Thousands were put to death, yet the Cause of God continued to spread.

In the year 1850 the Báb was martyred. At the order of the government, He was suspended in a courtyard together with one of His followers and shot by a regiment of soldiers. The Báb was only in the 31st year of His life.

The Báb gave His life to prepare the way for the coming of Bahá’u’lláh, “The Glory of God”, the banner of Whose Faith was destined to be raised in every corner of the planet.

# Book 4: The Life of Bahá’u’lláh

## Part 1

Bahá’u’lláh, Whose name was Mírzá Ḥusayn‑‘Alí, was born on 12 November 1817 in Ṭihrán, the capital of Persia. His father, Mírzá Buzurg, was a distinguished nobleman who held a high‑ranking position in the court of the Persian king. From an early age, Bahá’u’lláh showed signs of greatness and displayed extraordinary knowledge and wisdom. He did not attend regular school and only received some instruction at home. Regarding His childhood, ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá says:

“The Blessed Perfection, Bahá’u’lláh, belonged to the nobility of Persia. From earliest childhood He was distinguished among His relatives and friends. They said, ‘This child has extraordinary power.’ In wisdom, intelligence and as a source of new knowledge, He was advanced beyond His age and superior to His surroundings. All who knew Him were astonished at His precocity. It was usual for them to say, ‘Such a child will not live,’ for it is commonly believed that precocious children do not reach maturity.”

In a Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh Himself tells a story from His childhood of the occasion when He attended the wedding celebration of one of His brothers in Ṭihrán. As was the custom at that time, a great feast was held for seven days and nights. On the last day, a puppet show about a famous king was performed as entertainment for the guests. Bahá’u’lláh sat in an upper room overlooking the courtyard where a tent had been set up for the performance.

He tells us that the play began with the entrance of a few small figures in human form announcing that the king was approaching. Several more figures soon appeared. Some were sweeping, and others were sprinkling water in preparation for the king’s arrival. The town crier then entered the scene and told the people to assemble for an audience with the king. Several groups of figures made their appearance and took their proper places. Finally, the king made his grand entrance. Wearing a crown on his head, he walked slowly and majestically and seated himself on a throne. Shots were fired, trumpets blasted, and the tent was filled with smoke.

When the smoke cleared, the king, still seated on his throne, was seen surrounded by ministers, princes and state officials, all standing at attention in his presence. At that moment, a thief was brought before the king, who gave the order that he should be beheaded. The chief executioner carried out his instructions without delay. After the execution, the king fell into conversation with his ministers and officials. Suddenly news arrived that a rebellion had broken out in one of the frontiers. Troops were immediately dispatched to crush the uprising. A few minutes later, the sound of cannon shot was heard in the background, and it was announced that the king’s troops were engaged in battle against the rebels.

Thus the play continued. Bahá’u’lláh was greatly puzzled by the nature of the show. After it was over and the curtain was drawn, He saw a man come out from behind the tent carrying a box under his arm. “What is this box,” Bahá’u’lláh asked him, “and what was the nature of this display?” “All this lavish display and these elaborate devices,” he replied, “the king, the princes, and the ministers, their pomp and glory, their might and power, everything you saw, are now contained within this box.”2 This statement made a great impression on Bahá’u’lláh, Who later declared:

“Ever since that day, all the trappings of the world have seemed in the eyes of this Youth akin to that same spectacle. They have never been, nor will they ever be, of any weight and consequence, be it to the extent of a grain of mustard seed. . . .

“Erelong these outward trappings, these visible treasures, these earthly vanities, these arrayed armies, these adorned vestures, these proud and overweening souls, all shall pass into the confines of the grave, as though into that box. In the eyes of those possessed of insight, all this conflict, contention and vainglory hath ever been, and will ever be, like unto the play and pastimes of children.”

Another story associated with Bahá’u’lláh’s childhood is related to a dream that His father had in which Bahá’u’lláh appeared to be

“swimming in a vast, limitless ocean. His body shone upon the waters with a radiance that illumined the sea. Around His head, which could distinctly be seen above the waters, there radiated, in all directions, His long, jet‑black locks, floating in great profusion above the waves. . . . a multitude of fishes gathered round Him, each holding fast to the extremity of one hair. Fascinated by the effulgence of His face, they followed Him in whatever direction He swam. Great as was their number, and however firmly they clung to His locks, not one single hair seemed to have been detached from His head, nor did the least injury affect His person. Free and unrestrained, He moved above the waters and they all followed Him.”

Impressed by this dream, Bahá’u’lláh’s father asked a man known for his insight to interpret it for him. This man, as if inspired by a glimpse of the future glory of Bahá’u’lláh, said:

“The limitless ocean that you have seen in your dream is none other than the world of being. Single‑handed and alone, your son will achieve supreme ascendancy over it. Wherever He may please, He will proceed unhindered. No one will resist His march, no one will hinder His progress. The multitude of fishes signifies the turmoil which He will arouse amidst the peoples and kindreds of the earth. Around Him will they gather, and to Him will they cling. Assured of the unfailing protection of the Almighty, this tumult will never harm His person, nor will His loneliness upon the sea of life endanger His safety.”

## Part 2

As Bahá’u’lláh grew, the signs of His greatness became increasingly manifest. By the time He was a youth, He was renowned for His keen intelligence, His excellent character, His generosity and compassion. He was capable of solving the most difficult problems and of answering the most complicated and profound questions. Yet despite His extraordinary powers, He never sought position or prominence. When His father passed away, Bahá’u’lláh was asked to follow in his footsteps and assume his position in the court of the king. But He refused. He was not interested in the titles and honours of this world. His interest lay in defending the poor and protecting the needy. At the age of eighteen, Bahá’u’lláh married Ásíyih Khánum and their home became a shelter to all. No one was denied their hospitality.

Bahá’u’lláh was twenty‑seven years old when, on 23 May 1844, the Báb declared His Mission to Mullá Ḥusayn in Shíráz. Scarcely three months after that historic event, Bahá’u’lláh received a scroll from the Báb which contained some of His Writings. He instantly testified to the truth of the Báb’s Revelation and arose to promote His teachings. The story of how Bahá’u’lláh came to receive that scroll is as follows.

Soon after the Báb appointed His chosen disciples, the eighteen Letters of the Living, He called them to His presence and instructed them to spread out and share the new Message. He gave to each one a special task, assigning to some their own native provinces as the field of their endeavours. Of these eighteen blessed souls, Quddús was chosen to accompany Him on His pilgrimage to Mecca, where He was to proclaim His Mission. To Mullá Ḥusayn, the first to believe in Him, He addressed these words: “Grieve not that you have not been chosen to accompany Me on My pilgrimage to Ḥijáz. I shall, instead, direct your steps to that city which enshrines a Mystery of such transcendent holiness as neither Ḥijáz nor Shíráz can hope to rival.”8 He gave Mullá Ḥusayn a scroll and instructed him to proceed to Ṭihrán. He told him to beseech God, that he might be assisted in recognising the splendour of the secret hidden in that city and enter the presence of the Beloved.

Mullá Ḥusayn set out on his mission and, after passing through several cities, arrived in Ṭihrán. There he took a room in a school for religious studies. One of his first acts was to proclaim the Báb’s Message to the head of that school, who rejected it with arrogance. However, a young student overheard their conversation and was deeply affected by the words of this traveller. He decided to visit him at the hour of midnight to learn more about the Message he proclaimed with such enthusiasm. Mullá Ḥusayn received the young man and spoke to him with great courtesy and kindness. He told the student that he now understood why he had come to this place. The head of the school had disdainfully rejected the Message he had brought. “My hope,” said Mullá Ḥusayn, “is that his pupil may, unlike his master, recognise its truth.”

During their conversation, Mullá Ḥusayn asked the student where he came from. He replied that he was from the district of Núr, in the province of Mázindarán. “Tell me,” inquired Mullá Ḥusayn, “is there today among the family of the late Mírzá Buzurg‑i‑Núrí, who was so renowned for his character, his charm, and artistic and intellectual attainments, anyone who has proved himself capable of maintaining the high traditions of that illustrious house?”

“Yea,” he replied, “among his sons now living, one has distinguished Himself by the very traits which characterised His father. By His virtuous life, His high attainments, His loving‑kindness and liberality, He has proved Himself a noble descendant of a noble father.” “What is His occupation?” asked Mullá Ḥusayn. “He cheers the disconsolate and feeds the hungry.” “What of His rank and position?” “He has none, apart from befriending the poor and the stranger.” “What is His name?” “Ḥusayn‑‘Alí.”

With each answer, Mullá Ḥusayn became more filled with delight. “How does He spend His time?” he further asked. “He roams the woods and delights in the beauties of the countryside.” “What is His age?” “Eight and twenty.” Mullá Ḥusayn’s face was beaming with satisfaction and joy when he asked the young man: “I presume you often meet Him?” “I frequently visit His home,” he responded. “Will you deliver into His hands a trust from me?” “Most assuredly,” was his reply. Mullá Ḥusayn then handed him the scroll wrapped in a piece of cloth and requested him to present it to Bahá’u’lláh the next day at dawn. “Should He deign to answer me,” Mullá Ḥusayn added, “will you be kind enough to acquaint me with His reply?”12 The student took the scroll and, at daybreak, arose to carry out Mullá Ḥusayn’s request.

As he approached the house of Bahá’u’lláh, he saw His brother, Mírzá Músá, standing at the gate and explained to him the reason for his visit. Mírzá Músá conducted the young man into the presence of Bahá’u’lláh, and the scroll was laid before Him. Bahá’u’lláh asked them to be seated. Unfolding the scroll, He began to read aloud some of its passages. He had read but a page when He turned to His brother and said: “Músá, what have you to say? Verily I say, whoso believes in the Qur’án and recognises its Divine origin, and yet hesitates, though it be for a moment, to admit that these soul‑stirring words are endowed with the same regenerating power, has most assuredly erred in his judgement and has strayed far from the path of justice.”13 Dismissing the young man from His presence, Bahá’u’lláh requested him to take to Mullá Ḥusayn, as a gift from Him, a loaf of sugar and a package of tea and to convey to him His appreciation and love.

Filled with happiness, the young man arose and hurried back to Mullá Ḥusayn. He delivered to him the gift and message from Bahá’u’lláh. No words can describe the joy with which Mullá Ḥusayn received them. With a bowed head, he accepted the gift and fervently kissed it. He then hugged the young man, kissed his eyes, and said: “My dearly beloved friend! I pray that even as you have rejoiced my heart, God may grant you eternal felicity and fill your heart with imperishable gladness.”14 The young man was greatly puzzled by Mullá Ḥusayn’s behaviour. What could be, he wondered, the nature of the bond that unites these two souls? What could be the cause of fellowship between them? Why should Mullá Ḥusayn have shown such happiness upon receiving so small a gift from Bahá’u’lláh? The young man was faced with a mystery that he could not unravel.

A few days later, Mullá Ḥusayn left for Khurásán, a province in the northeast of Írán. As he said farewell to the young student from Núr, he told him: “Breathe not to anyone what you have heard and witnessed. Let this be a secret hidden within your breast. Divulge not His name, for they who envy His position will arise to harm Him. In your moments of meditation, pray that the Almighty may protect Him, that, through Him, He may exalt the downtrodden, enrich the poor, and redeem the fallen. The secret of things is concealed from our eyes. Ours is the duty to raise the call of the New Day and to proclaim this Divine Message unto all people. Many a soul will, in this city, shed his blood in this path. That blood will water the Tree of God, will cause it to flourish, and to overshadow all mankind.”

## Part 3

From the moment Bahá’u’lláh testified to the truth of the Báb’s Revelation, He arose to proclaim it. The first journey He undertook was to His ancestral home in Núr, in the province of Mázindarán. There He went to His family home in the village of Tákur.

Word of Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in Tákur travelled fast throughout the region. Many of the local officials and dignitaries came to greet Him and, at the same time, receive news about the king, his court and the affairs of state. But Bahá’u’lláh responded to their inquiries with little interest. He would quickly change the subject and begin to set forth, in the most eloquent manner, the Message proclaimed by the Báb. His words were so convincing and His arguments so sound that all were amazed. Those who heard Him were surprised that a person of His high position would take such a keen interest in matters which usually concerned the clergy and religious leaders. His enthusiasm and depth of knowledge soon attracted large numbers to the Cause of the Báb, including many prominent individuals and members of His own family. No one who entered His presence could resist the influence of His sweet words or dared to oppose the truth of His statements, no one except His own uncle.

This uncle did everything possible to discredit Bahá’u’lláh and the truth of the Message He had brought. When he realised he was incapable of doing so, he went to a well‑known Muslim clergyman and pleaded for his assistance. He complained that Bahá’u’lláh had come to Núr and, although not of the clergy, was speaking on religious matters. He warned the cleric that everyone who entered Bahá’u’lláh’s presence fell under His spell and was overtaken by the power of His words. “I know not whether he is a sorcerer,” he said, “or whether he mixes with his tea some mysterious substance that makes every man who drinks the tea fall a victim to its charm.”

Knowing that he could never succeed in challenging Bahá’u’lláh, the cleric ignored the pleas of the uncle. But the Message of the Báb continued to spread like wildfire throughout the district, and the alarmed followers of the cleric began to put pressure on him to take some form of action. Finally, he decided to send his two most outstanding pupils to visit Bahá’u’lláh and investigate the nature of the Message He was propagating. This is the story of what happened when those two representatives entered the presence of Bahá’u’lláh.

On being told, upon their arrival in Tákur, that Bahá’u’lláh had left for His winter home, the cleric’s representatives decided to follow Him there. When they arrived, they found Bahá’u’lláh engaged in revealing a commentary on one of the chapters of the Qur’án. As they sat and listened to Him, they were profoundly impressed by the eloquence of His presentation and the extraordinary manner in which He spoke. One of the representatives, unable to contain himself, arose from his seat, walked to the back of the room and, in an attitude of respect and submissiveness, stood still beside the door. Trembling and with eyes full of tears, he told his companion: “I am powerless to question Bahá’u’lláh. The questions I had planned to ask Him have vanished suddenly from my memory. You are free either to proceed with your inquiry or to return alone to our teacher and inform him of the state in which I find myself. Tell him from me that I can never again return to him. I can no longer forsake this threshold.” But the other representative was equally struck by Bahá’u’lláh’s words and followed the example of his friend. “I have ceased to recognise my teacher,” was his reply. “This very moment, I have vowed to God to dedicate the remaining days of my life to the service of Bahá’u’lláh, my true and only Master.” News of the conversion of the cleric’s pupils spread rapidly among the population of Núr. Dignitaries, state officials, religious leaders, traders and peasants crowded to the presence of Bahá’u’lláh. Hundreds were brought under the banner of the Cause of the Báb. No one except Bahá’u’lláh knew, however, that a terrible persecution was soon to follow, a persecution that would tear out by their very roots many of these newly born and tender plants.

## Part 4

Divine Revelation is progressive. God reveals His Will progressively through His Manifestations Who come from time to time as humanity advances from one stage to another. While confirming certain essential truths, each Manifestation brings a new set of laws and ordinances suitable to humanity’s capacity and abrogates others, no longer needed, brought by the One Who came before Him. It can be difficult, however, for people to leave behind the past, and often even His closest disciples are at first incapable of grasping the full significance of His Revelation. They continue to hold on to religious practices and customs that generations have followed for hundreds of years. Only with time do they come to understand that the new Manifestation is laying down new laws for humanity’s next stage of evolution.

This was the case with the Revelation of the Báb. The Muslims, among whom the Báb appeared, believed that not even a “letter” from the teachings of the Prophet Muḥammad could be changed until the end of the world. Therefore, the Báb allowed His full Message to be made known only gradually. During the first years of His Ministry, no changes to the laws of Islám were made. But, as you know, while imprisoned later in the fortress of Máh‑Kú, the Báb revealed a new set of laws in the Persian Bayán. Now was the time for His followers to make a definite break with the past and to proclaim His true Station as a Manifestation of God. This was done at the Conference of Badasht.

Badasht is a village some distance from Ṭihrán in the northeastern part of the country. The Conference of Badasht was held in July 1848. Eighty‑one of the Báb’s most distinguished followers came together in this conference. The principal participants were Bahá’u’lláh, Quddús, and Ṭáhirih.

Although Bahá’u’lláh was already held in high esteem by His fellow Bábís, who recognised His knowledge and wisdom and looked to Him for guidance, at the conference His greatness and majesty were manifested to a further degree. Indeed, His role there was decisive. He rented the gardens in which the conference was held, and for twenty‑two days, all those who had gathered enjoyed His generous hospitality. Each day Bahá’u’lláh revealed a Tablet to be read before the entire group assembled. To each He gave a new name. To Ṭáhirih and Quddús He gave the titles by which they will be known throughout history. The title Ṭáhirih means “the Pure One”, and Quddús means “Holy”. He Himself was, from that time forward, to be known by the name of Bahá. Later the Báb would reveal a special Tablet for each one of those who had attended the conference, addressing them by the names they had received on that occasion.

One day Bahá’u’lláh was confined to His bed with illness, and everyone was gathered in His presence. Then, all of a sudden, Ṭáhirih, who was considered the essence of purity and chastity, appeared before them without the veil that, according to the beliefs of Muslims in Írán, all women had to wear in public. Some of the Bábís present felt that she had brought shame to herself and to their nascent Faith. Quddús was visibly angry. But Ṭáhirih, unshaken and aglow with joy, addressed her companions with eloquence. She called on them to break with the past—with its religious dogmas, its traditions and ceremonies. The tension that arose between Quddús and Ṭáhirih was eased through Bahá’u’lláh’s intervention. While a few of the Báb’s followers left the Faith as a result of this proclamation, the majority remained firm and were filled with fresh enthusiasm. Bahá’u’lláh had masterfully used the occasion to celebrate the dawn of a new Day. Ṭáhirih, through her bold act, had sounded the trumpet‑blast announcing the end of the old and the beginning of a new Faith.

The Conference of Badasht also marked the inception of the most turbulent stage in the development of the Bábí Faith. Soon the persecution of its followers would reach unprecedented levels of intensity, and many would be called to martyrdom. It was as if the conference had been a farewell gathering, from which they would go forth to perform deeds of great heroism, only to be reunited in the spiritual realms beyond.

Those present at the conference departed together for Mázindarán. Upon stopping to rest outside a village, however, they were attacked by its inhabitants, who were ignorant of their true intentions. The Bábís were forced to flee and scattered in different directions. Bahá’u’lláh continued on to Núr in Mázindarán.

News of the Conference of Badasht soon reached Ṭihrán, and the king and his ministers became aware of the events that had taken place and the role played by Bahá’u’lláh at the conference. The king, weak from an illness that would soon take his life, was advised by the prime minister to order the arrest of Bahá’u’lláh. Accordingly, an order was sent to one of the officials of Mázindarán, instructing him to detain Bahá’u’lláh and bring Him to the capital. As it happened, the order arrived one day before that very official was to give a reception for Bahá’u’lláh, to Whom he was devotedly attached. He was greatly distressed and chose not to tell anyone. The next day news reached Mázindarán that the king had died; the arrest order was no longer valid.

## Part 5

Náṣiri’d‑Dín Sháh, the king who rose to the throne in 1848, was far more ruthless than his father, the previous king. From the beginning of his reign, the persecutions of the Bábís increased dramatically. The Báb Himself was martyred in July of 1850 in Tabríz. His oppressed followers, who had witnessed the tragic death of thousands of their fellow believers, had now lost the most Beloved of their hearts. In their thoughts, many blamed the king for the cruelties heaped upon them over the years. But despite these feelings, they continued to be the well‑wishers of the government and the people. Their energies were bent on spreading the new Faith through the power of good deeds and convincing arguments. There was, however, a small group, driven by intense anger, who were toying with dangerous ideas. In a state of despair, these foolish few believed that they could change the lot of the Bábí community by attacking tyranny at its root. They began to plot the assassination of the king.

The intentions of the group were communicated to Bahá’u’lláh by one of its leaders. Bahá’u’lláh advised him in the clearest terms that they should give up their plan. He warned them that such an act would bring fresh disasters to the already grief‑stricken followers of the Báb. But the plotters were in such a state of bitterness, and the fire of vengeance burned so forcefully in their hearts, that not even the counsels of Bahá’u’lláh were able to stop them. They proceeded to commit an act that will forever be considered a stain on the pages of Bábí history, otherwise adorned with nothing but pure, selfless, and heroic deeds.

On 15 August 1852, the king left his summer residence near Ṭihrán on horseback to go for his morning ride. His personal guard moved a few steps ahead of him. There was calmness in the air; all seemed well. Then, catching everyone by surprise, a young man waiting on the roadside, pretending to be a bystander with a petition for the king, attempted to slay him. So foolish was this would‑be assassin that the pistol he used only fired small pellets totally inadequate for the purpose intended. The king was wounded only slightly, but the rage that the attempt on his life created gave the enemies of the Faith an opportunity to excite the people to unimaginable acts of cruelty against the Bábís.

This ill‑fated youth was immediately killed; his body was tied to the tail of a mule and dragged all the way to Ṭihrán, where it was cut into two halves and hung for the public to view. Molten lead was poured down the throat of his accomplice—this, only after he had been tortured mercilessly yet had refused to give up the names of any of his friends. His comrade was stripped of his clothes, had lighted candles placed into holes made in his flesh, and was paraded before the crowds who shouted and cursed him.

What followed cannot be described in words. The government, the clergy, and their ignorant supporters arose to exterminate the Bábís. The gates to the city were closed, and no one was allowed to leave without being questioned. The Bábís were sought from house to house, arrested and put to death with a cruelty too gruesome to recount in these pages.

On the day that the attempt on the life of the king took place, Bahá’u’lláh was the guest of the prime minister’s brother in a village near Ṭihrán. News of the calamity soon reached Him, and He was advised to hide until the storm had passed. The mother of the king blamed Bahá’u’lláh for the attempt on her son’s life and was demanding His arrest. But Bahá’u’lláh refused to go into hiding; on the contrary, the next day, He mounted His horse and rode towards the headquarters of the king. The king and his court were astonished to learn of Bahá’u’lláh’s approach. How could someone who was being accused of such a terrible crime, far from running away, ride so confidently towards danger? The king immediately ordered Bahá’u’lláh’s arrest. The efforts of some of His friends who tried to find a refuge for Him in the house of the prime minister failed. He was arrested in the village of Shimírán, some 30 kilometres from the capital, and put in chains.

On foot and exposed to the fierce rays of the midsummer sun, Bahá’u’lláh was brought from Shimírán to Ṭihrán. The crowds, who had been told He was the enemy of their king, shouted abuses at Him all along the route. The story of an old woman who longed to cast a stone at Bahá’u’lláh captures the madness of the crowd on that day and demonstrates the love that was in His heart as He faced the most grievous of calamities.

Bahá’u’lláh was nearing the dungeon where He was to be imprisoned when an old and feeble woman forced her way through the crowd with a stone in her hand. She had a look of determination and fanaticism that few women her age could muster. Her whole body shook with rage. She stepped forward and raised her hand, preparing to cast her stone. “I adjure you,” she pleaded, as she ran after those conducting Bahá’u’lláh to the dungeon, “give me a chance to fling my stone in his face!” “Suffer not this woman to be disappointed,” were Bahá’u’lláh’s words to His guards as He saw her rushing towards Him. “Deny her not what she regards as a meritorious act in the sight of God.”

## Part 6

Síyáh‑Chál, the name of the prison to which Bahá’u’lláh was taken on that calamitous day in 1852, means “black pit”. Originally a reservoir of water for one of the public baths in Ṭihrán, it was at that time an underground dungeon in which criminals of the worst type were confined.

To reach the prison, one was taken through a pitch‑black passageway and then down three flights of stairs. Wrapped in thick darkness, it was icy‑cold, and the floor covered with filth and crawling with vermin. Bahá’u’lláh Himself describes the terrible conditions under which He was imprisoned:

“Upon Our arrival We were first conducted along a pitch‑black corridor, from whence We descended three steep flights of stairs to the place of confinement assigned to Us. The dungeon was wrapped in thick darkness, and Our fellow‑prisoners numbered nearly a hundred and fifty souls: thieves, assassins and highwaymen. Though crowded, it had no other outlet than the passage by which We entered. No pen can depict that place, nor any tongue describe its loathsome smell. Most of these men had neither clothes nor bedding to lie on. God alone knoweth what befell Us in that most foul‑smelling and gloomy place!”

Under these cruel conditions Bahá’u’lláh and a number of Bábís were imprisoned by the king. Bahá’u’lláh’s feet were put in stocks, and a heavy chain weighing some 50 kilogrammes was placed around His neck. For the first three days and nights they were given nothing to eat or drink. The family of Bahá’u’lláh would prepare food for Him and ask the guards to bring it to Him. Although they initially refused, they eventually gave in to their pleas. But, even then, no one could be sure whether the food reached Him or whether He would accept to eat it while His fellow‑prisoners went hungry.

Bahá’u’lláh and His companions, also in stocks and chains, all huddled together in one cell. They had been placed in two rows, each facing the other. Bahá’u’lláh taught them to repeat certain verses which, every night, they chanted with great fervour. “God is sufficient unto me; He verily is the All‑sufficing!” one row would chant, and the other would reply: “In Him let the trusting trust.” Into the early hours of the morning, the chorus of their happy voices could be heard. So powerful was the sound of their chanting that it reached the ears of the king, whose palace was not far from the Síyáh‑Chál. “What means this sound?” he was reported to have asked. “It is the anthem the Bábís are intoning in their prison,” was the reply.27 The king fell silent.

Every day, the jailors would enter the cell and call out the name of one of the Bábís, ordering him to arise and follow them to the foot of the gallows. With eagerness, the owner of the name would respond to that call. His chains removed, he would jump to his feet and, in a state of unconstrained delight, would approach Bahá’u’lláh and embrace Him. He would then embrace each of his fellow‑prisoners and would go forth, with a heart filled with hope and joy, to meet the death that awaited him. Soon after the martyrdom of each of these heroic souls, the executioner, who had grown to admire Bahá’u’lláh, would come to Him and inform Him of the circumstances of the death of the martyr and of the joy with which he had endured, to the very end, the pain inflicted upon him.

## Part 7

There is a profound concept which every student of Bahá’í history must understand— namely, that the Cause of God advances through a series of crises and victories. Whenever the forces of ignorance, injustice, cruelty and fanaticism assail the Cause, giving rise to a crisis, a corresponding measure of its inherent power is released, and the forces are overcome, spurring the Cause on to new victories that, sooner or later, provoke a fresh outbreak of opposition, unimagined before, which serves, in turn, to release a further measure of its Divine power. So it is that the Cause of God moves from crisis to victory to crisis to victory, and no power on earth is capable of stopping its onward march.

The short Ministry of the Báb had already followed such a course. Yet the ordinary observer would have assumed that this latest crisis could not be overcome: The Báb had been martyred. Thousands of His followers had been killed in a massacre of untold cruelty. The most outstanding of His disciples had been martyred, and the only One Who could revive hope was under chains in the darkest of dungeons. The crisis was indeed profound, but the victory that followed was most glorious.

In the Síyáh‑Chál, God made known to Bahá’u’lláh the greatness of His Station. Wrapped in gloom, breathing the foulest of air, His feet in stocks, and His neck weighed down by a mighty chain, Bahá’u’lláh received the first intimations of God’s Revelation. Under these dreadful circumstances, the “Most Great Spirit” revealed itself to Him, bidding Him to arise and speak forth the Word of God.

At times, He would feel as if something flowed from the crown of His head over His breast, as a mighty torrent falls upon the earth from the summit of a high mountain. He saw the Maid of Heaven suspended before Him, speaking to His inner and outer being, referring to Him as the Best‑Beloved of the worlds, the Beauty of God, and the power of God’s sovereignty. He was assured that He would be made victorious by Himself and by His Pen, and by the aid of those whom God would raise up.

Thus, out of the darkness of the Black Pit rose the Sun of Truth. The Báb’s promise had been fulfilled. The Bahá’í Revelation was born. Yet Bahá’u’lláh did not inform anyone of what had occurred. He would await the appointed hour, ordained by God, to make His Mission known.

## Part 8

While Bahá’u’lláh remained under chains in the Síyáh‑Chál, His enemies were busy trying to obtain His death sentence from the king. But Bahá’u’lláh was loved by people high and low alike and could not be executed so easily. Proof was needed that would connect Him with the attempt on the king’s life. The more they tried to find such proof, the more it became evident that He was entirely innocent. Unable to bring about His execution, these ruthless enemies decided to poison His food. So strong was the poison, however, that its initial effects were quickly noticed, and Bahá’u’lláh stopped eating the meal. In the end, the authorities had no other choice but to release Him from prison; this they did only on the condition that He leave the country and go into exile.

Bahá’u’lláh had endured four months in prison. He was now ill and exhausted. The inhumane conditions of the prison, the chain of some 50 kilos around His neck, and finally the poison had left Him in such a weakened state that He was confined to His bed under watchful care. The links of the chain had made deep wounds in His neck and, although these healed with time, the scars remained until the end of His life. In the midst of all this, the family had to prepare to undertake an arduous journey within one‑month’s time. Bahá’u’lláh had been given the freedom to choose the place of His exile. He chose Baghdád, then a city in the Ottoman Empire and today the capital of ‘Iráq.

The trip lasted from 12 January 1853 to 8 April of the same year. It was the middle of winter, and Bahá’u’lláh and His family had to travel through the western part of Írán where winters are bitterly cold. The supplies they had for the journey were not sufficient, and they had to be content with little food. But this small band of travellers was protected by Almighty God Himself, and through His unfailing assistance, they arrived safely in Baghdád.

Írán had deprived itself of the bounty of the presence of Bahá’u’lláh and had forced Him to leave, never to return to His native land. ‘Iráq was now to be the home of the most precious Being on the planet. An outstanding Bahá’í historian has these words to say about Bahá’u’lláh’s exile from Írán:

“As Bahá’u’lláh neared the frontier, a period drew to its close. Were the people of Írán aware of the loss they sustained? Steeped in ignorance, sunk in bigotry, blinded by prejudice, led by self‑seeking men, beguiled by falsehoods, theirs was not to see and know. And thus the Redeemer of the world passed out of their midst. He Who once was loved and respected by rich and poor, high and low, prince and peasant alike, was now deserted by the same people on whom He had lavished mercy, love, justice and charity at all times. Írán lost the presence of Bahá’u’lláh, but could His spirit ever be absent from that or any other land?”

## Part 9

In Baghdád, Bahá’u’lláh rented a house in the old quarter of the city. In the months following His arrival, an increasing number of Bábís made their way to Baghdád. Unfortunately, many had sunk into a pitiful state; they were confused and bewildered, and some were committing acts unworthy of a follower of the Báb. Bahá’u’lláh received all those who arrived with boundless love and assisted them in cleansing their hearts and in reviving their spirits. Under His influence, the fortunes of the Bábí community began to change and hope blossomed again. But, alas, a new crisis was in the making. This time its source was within the community itself; the cause of misfortune was none other than Bahá’u’lláh’s own half‑brother, Mírzá Yaḥyá, who claimed to be the Báb’s successor.

In reality, the Báb had not seen the need to name a successor, for He knew that the Promise of All Ages would soon appear. What He had done, on the advice of Bahá’u’lláh and a trusted follower, was to nominate Mírzá Yaḥyá as a figurehead. This would enable Bahá’u’lláh to promote the Cause in relative security. Mírzá Yaḥyá had received much love and support from Bahá’u’lláh throughout his early life, yet he proved to be both ambitious and cowardly. The martyrdom of the Báb had shocked him to such an extent that he had almost lost his faith. He had wandered for a while as a dervish in the mountains of Mázindarán, his behaviour so shameful that he had driven some of the Bábís of the region away from the Cause. Using one disguise after another, he finally came to Baghdád and, having obtained a sum of money from Bahá’u’lláh to engage in commerce, was living under a new name in one of the neighbourhoods of the city.

The growing respect and love being shown to Bahá’u’lláh by the followers of the Báb, as well as His rising prestige among the city officials, had a terrible effect on Mírzá Yaḥyá. His jealousy was aroused, and its fire burned with such intensity that it consumed every trace of decency. Together with an associate more shameless than himself, Mírzá Yaḥyá set out to sow the seeds of doubt among the Bábís about Bahá’u’lláh’s intentions. Once again the clouds of suspicion, fear and idle fancy descended upon the Bábí community. The short period of calm and tranquillity had come to an end and, day by day, Bahá’u’lláh’s sufferings were intensifying.

On the morning of 10 April 1854, Bahá’u’lláh’s family woke to find that He was gone. He had left the city without telling anyone His purpose or destination. Seeing where the actions of Mírzá Yaḥyá were leading, Bahá’u’lláh had chosen to retire to the mountains of Kurdistán, northeast of Baghdád. “The one object of Our retirement”, He Himself has later said, “was to avoid becoming a subject of discord among the faithful, a source of disturbance unto Our companions, the means of injury to any soul, or the cause of sorrow to any heart.”

In the wilderness, some distance from the town of Sulaymáníyyih, Bahá’u’lláh lived alone in communion with God. He was content with little food. At times He received some milk from the shepherds in the surrounding area and, occasionally, visited the town to obtain the minimum necessities of life. Yet, even during these brief contacts with the people of the region, Bahá’u’lláh’s greatness could not be kept hidden from their eyes. His love and wisdom attracted the inhabitants of Sulaymáníyyih and His fame began to spread to the neighbouring areas. News of a man of extraordinary wisdom and eloquence living in that region of Kurdistán finally reached Baghdád. His family, realising that this Personage could be none other than Bahá’u’lláh, sent a trusted believer to beg Him to return. Bahá’u’lláh accepted their request, thus ending His two‑year voluntary withdrawal.

## Part 10

During Bahá’u’lláh’s two‑year absence, the fortunes of the Faith had reached the lowest point in its history. As expected, Mírzá Yaḥyá had proven himself incapable of leading even the small community in Baghdád. In various parts, a number of the Bábís were engaged in activities that brought shame to the precious Cause of the Báb. So, once again, Bahá’u’lláh took on the task of reviving the community. His arrival in March 1856 was announced to the believers, and His door was opened to all who longed for truth. The modest residence in which He lived with His family became a centre where seekers and visitors gathered. Everyone who came into His presence was transformed by the power of His sweet and loving words. Those who had the bounty of living in close proximity to Him felt as if they were in paradise. They became a new creation, utterly detached from the things of this world. This is how Nabíl, the great historian of the early Bahá’í Era, describes the state of those souls:

“Many a night, no less than ten persons subsisted on no more than a pennyworth of dates. No one knew to whom actually belonged the shoes, the cloaks, or the robes that were to be found in their houses. Whoever went to the bazaar could claim that the shoes upon his feet were his own, and each one who entered the presence of Bahá’u’lláh could affirm that the cloak and robe he then wore belonged to him. Their own names they had forgotten, their hearts were emptied of aught else except adoration for their Beloved. . . . O, for the joy of those days, and the gladness and wonder of those hours!”

Bahá’u’lláh remained in Baghdád for seven years following His return from Sulaymáníyyih. Throughout that time, He continued to keep hidden His Station as the Manifestation of God for this Day. Yet Divine love poured out from Him in such measure that receptive hearts could not but be touched by it. The guidance He revealed in conversations and in written verses and Tablets transformed the character of the Bábís, who had been left shepherdless for so long. These are the years during which He revealed the Book of Certitude, wherein He explained the nature of God’s Revelation in such clear terms that the foundations of man‑made dogmas of the past were destroyed. It is during this same period that He revealed, as He walked the banks of the river Tigris wrapped in meditation, the Hidden Words, so cherished by every one of us as a guide to our spiritual growth. The rapidity with which Divine verses flowed from His Pen was astonishing. He Himself refers to that period of extraordinary potency:

“. . . We revealed, as a copious rain, by the aid of God and His Divine Grace and mercy, Our verses, and sent them to various parts of the world. We exhorted all men, and particularly this people, through Our wise counsels and loving admonitions, and forbade them to engage in sedition, quarrels, disputes and conflict. As a result of this, and by the grace of God, waywardness and folly were changed into piety and understanding, and weapons converted into instruments of peace.”

The seven years of Bahá’u’lláh’s life in Baghdád represent a period of magnificent victories. It was to be expected, then, that sooner or later a crisis should arise, which in turn would be followed by an even greater victory. The growing prestige of Bahá’u’lláh did not go unnoticed by the enemies of the Faith. The most active among them was a certain Shaykh who used every means at his disposal to convince the officials of both the Persian and Ottoman governments, as well as the clergy, to arise in opposition against Him.

For years, the Shaykh’s efforts were frustrated by Bahá’u’lláh’s wisdom and the nobility of His words and deeds. One time this Shaykh called together the leading clerics in the region with the intention of obtaining their unanimous condemnation of Bahá’u’lláh. All were prepared to launch an attack against the small band of exiles in Baghdád in order to destroy the Faith at its heart. To their surprise, however, the most highly placed among them, a man known for his justice and piety, refused to give the necessary sentence against the Bábís. He told the group that, to his knowledge, the Bábí community had done nothing that would justify such an act and left the gathering.

Since its original plan had failed, the group decided to send a learned man to Bahá’u’lláh and submit to Him a number of questions to test His knowledge. Upon hearing Bahá’u’lláh’s replies to the questions, this messenger accepted, on behalf of the group of clergy, the vastness of His knowledge. But then he said that, in order to satisfy everyone concerned of the truth of His Mission, He should perform a miracle for them. “Although you have no right to ask this,” Bahá’u’lláh responded, “for God should test His creatures, and they should not test God, still I allow and accept this request.”39 However He gave the messenger one condition: The clergy should first choose a miracle and set down in writing that, after its performance, they would no longer have any doubts about Him and would acknowledge and confess the truth of His Cause. They should seal this written document and bring it to Him.

This clear and challenging reply affected the messenger profoundly. He instantly arose, kissed the knee of Bahá’u’lláh, and departed. He delivered Bahá’u’lláh’s message to the group of clergy. They debated over it for three days but could not come to any decision. Finally, they had no choice but to drop the matter.

Still the ruthless enemies of the Faith did not give up their schemings against Bahá’u’lláh. They continued to stir up mischief and to misrepresent His intentions to the authorities until at last, in the spring of 1863, their efforts yielded fruit, and the next crisis appeared.

## Part 11

Towards the end of His stay in Baghdád, Bahá’u’lláh began to make occasional reference to the tests and trials that lay ahead. A dream He once related to His companions caused great distress. “I saw,” He wrote in a Tablet, “the Prophets and the Messengers gather and seat themselves around Me, moaning, weeping and loudly lamenting. Amazed, I inquired of them the reason, whereupon their lamentation and weeping waxed greater, and they said unto Me: ‘We weep for Thee, O Most Great Mystery, O Tabernacle of Immortality!’ They wept with such a weeping that I too wept with them. Thereupon the Concourse on high addressed Me saying: ‘. . . Erelong shalt Thou behold with Thine own eyes what no Prophet hath beheld. . . . Be patient, be patient.’ . . . They continued addressing Me the whole night until the approach of dawn.”

In early spring 1863, Bahá’u’lláh revealed the Tablet of the Holy Mariner, which, in a mystical language, foretold future events and spoke of betrayal and separation. This Tablet was read to the friends gathered in His presence. Oceans of sorrow surged in their hearts as they sensed that He was to be taken from them. Later, on the same day, a messenger delivered to Bahá’u’lláh a communication requesting an interview between Him and the governor of Baghdád. The following day, upon arriving for the interview, Bahá’u’lláh was presented with a letter from the prime minister of the Ottoman Empire, worded in a courteous manner, inviting Bahá’u’lláh to travel to the Ottoman capital, Constantinople. A mounted escort was ordered to accompany Him for His protection. Bahá’u’lláh agreed to the request at once but refused to accept the money that the government was offering for His travels. The governor’s representative insisted He accept it, saying that the authorities would be offended if He did not do so. In the end, He took the generous sum and immediately distributed it among the poor of the city.

News of Bahá’u’lláh’s imminent departure from Baghdád shook the Bábí community. Those devoted souls, whose hearts had become so attached to His radiant presence, were overwhelmed with sadness. At first, no one was able to sleep or eat. Gradually, however, they were calmed through Bahá’u’lláh’s kind and tender words and accepted that most would be deprived of the bounty of accompanying Him on the next stage of His exile. As a token of His love, He wrote in His own handwriting a Tablet for each of the believers who lived in the city—man, woman, and child.

In the vicinity of Baghdád, there was a beautiful garden full of roses, and the rose was Bahá’u’lláh’s favourite flower. On the afternoon of 22 April, He left the city and entered the garden. The believers, and indeed vast numbers of the people of Baghdád, were grief stricken. The Bábí community, now totally revived through the tender care of Bahá’u’lláh, had entered yet another crisis. What would be the future of this young Faith whose only Hope was being exiled to a place so far removed from the majority of its adherents? The answer awaiting those heartbroken friends who gathered to bid Him farewell was stupendous. Bahá’u’lláh would tear away the veils that hid His true Station and would declare that He was the Promised One of All Ages.

Bahá’u’lláh stayed in the garden, known today as the Garden of Riḍván, for twelve days before departing for Constantinople. His enemies had tried to strike a fatal blow at the Cause by separating Him from the body of its followers. God, however, turned the farewell into an occasion of immense joy. The Declaration of His Mission created new life in the souls of His companions. This was the Day of Days for which the Báb had prepared them. Bahá’u’lláh Himself says that on that Day “all created things were immersed in the sea of purification”.

Little is known of the details of the conversations Bahá’u’lláh held with the stream of visitors He received in the Garden of Riḍván. The following words of the historian Nabíl give us only a glimpse of the glory of those days:

“Every day, ere the hour of dawn, the gardeners would pick the roses which lined the four avenues of the garden, and would pile them in the centre of the floor of His blessed tent. So great would be the heap that when His companions gathered to drink their morning tea in His presence, they would be unable to see each other across it. All these roses Bahá’u’lláh would, with His own hands, entrust to those whom He dismissed from His presence every morning to be delivered, on His behalf, to His Arab and Persian friends in the city. . . . One night, the ninth night of the waxing moon, I happened to be one of those who watched beside His blessed tent. As the hour of midnight approached, I saw Him issue from His tent, pass by the places where some of His companions were sleeping, and begin to pace up and down the moonlit, flower‑bordered avenues of the garden. So loud was the singing of the nightingales on every side that only those who were near Him could hear distinctly His voice. He continued to walk until, pausing in the midst of one of these avenues, He observed: ‘Consider these nightingales. So great is their love for these roses, that sleepless from dusk till dawn, they warble their melodies and commune with burning passion with the object of their adoration. How then can those who claim to be afire with the rose‑like beauty of the Beloved choose to sleep?’ For three successive nights I watched and circled round His blessed tent. Every time I passed by the couch whereon He lay, I would find Him wakeful, and every day, from morn till eventide, I would see Him ceaselessly engaged in conversing with the stream of visitors who kept flowing in from Baghdád. Not once could I discover in the words He spoke any trace of dissimulation.”

Today, the Festival of Riḍván is celebrated every year around the world to commemorate the Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh’s Mission. Lasting twelve days, it is the holiest and most significant of all Bahá’í festivals.

## Part 12

Bahá’u’lláh, His family, and the small group that accompanied them remained in Constantinople for only four months. The Persian government continued from afar its persecution of One Whose growing influence it clearly saw as a threat. Its ambassador in the court of the Sulṭán—the ruler of the Ottoman Empire—mounted a systematic campaign against Bahá’u’lláh. The environment in which the Sulṭán, his ministers and their associates lived was one of treachery, intrigue, and hypocrisy. Bahá’u’lláh refused to have anything to do with the members of the court and their unworthy aims. This made it even easier for the Persian ambassador to fill the minds of the authorities with accusations and lies. His ceaseless efforts were effective and finally an order was issued exiling Bahá’u’lláh to the city of Adrianople, still farther from the Persian border.

Bahá’u’lláh’s response to the order was an act of extraordinary courage. He immediately revealed a lengthy Tablet in which He addressed the Sulṭán himself, rebuked him and his ministers, and exposed their immaturity and incompetence. The Tablet was delivered to the Sulṭán’s prime minister in a sealed envelope. It is said that when he opened the letter and began to read it, he turned pale and remarked: “It is as if the King of Kings were issuing his behest to his humblest vassal king and regulating his conduct.”

The twelve‑day journey from Constantinople to Adrianople was extremely difficult for Bahá’u’lláh and His family, who had now set out on their third exile. It was the month of December, and the weather was bitterly cold. Only by lighting a fire to thaw the ice could they obtain water from springs along the way. Most of the exiles did not have the necessary clothes to protect them from such harsh weather.

Bahá’u’lláh entered Adrianople on 12 December 1863 and stayed in that city for a total of four and a half years. This period, again, was one of painful crises and splendid victories. As the influence of Bahá’u’lláh grew, the fire of jealousy burned more fiercely in Mírzá Yaḥyá’s heart. He became bolder and bolder in his opposition and tried his best to prevent the Bábís from accepting the Manifestation of God for this Day. The trouble he caused not only created difficulties within the community itself; it also gave the external enemies of the Faith ammunition that they used to launch further attacks against Bahá’u’lláh and His followers. Mírzá Yaḥyá’s treachery seemed to have no bounds. He even decided to poison Bahá’u’lláh and, after much scheming and effort, eventually achieved his purpose. The effect of the poison on Bahá’u’lláh was grave, and although He recovered, He was left with a shaking hand until the end of His life.

Adrianople, of course, will not be remembered for the shameful acts of Mírzá Yaḥyá but for the great victories attained by Bahá’u’lláh in that city. It was from there that Bahá’u’lláh sent many of His Tablets addressed to the kings and rulers of the world and proclaimed His Faith far and wide.

His public proclamation represented the third stage of a gradual process through which His Mission was made known to humanity. The first stage began in the Síyáh‑Chál in Ṭihrán when the Divine Spirit revealed itself to Bahá’u’lláh and announced to Him that He was the Bearer of God’s Message for this Day. Although the birth of His Revelation remained unknown for a decade, like the dawn, it stirred sleeping souls, awakening the receptive ones and preparing them to recognise Bahá’u’lláh. The second stage opened in the Garden of Riḍván, where He declared His Mission to certain of the friends gathered to bid Him farewell. Now a small number of favoured souls were aware of His Station. The third stage saw the universal proclamation of His Mission. It began in Constantinople, gained considerable momentum in Adrianople, and reached its greatest heights in ‘Akká, the next and final place of His exile.

## Part 13

Mírzá Yaḥyá’s open opposition to Bahá’u’lláh in Adrianople caused great turmoil among the small group of exiles, many of whom were just beginning to get a glimpse of Bahá’u’lláh’s Station. This gave the enemies of the Cause, who had behind them the powers of two governments—the Persian and the Ottoman—the opportunity they needed to strike another blow at the newly born Faith of God. Suddenly one morning, the house of Bahá’u’lláh was surrounded by soldiers, and everyone was told to prepare for immediate departure. For some time, no one knew what their destiny would be. The greatest fear in the hearts of most was to be separated from their Beloved, for there were rumours that Bahá’u’lláh and His family would be exiled to one place, while the others would be forced to disperse. In the end, it became clear that Bahá’u’lláh was to be banished to the prison‑city of ‘Akká, and Mírzá Yaḥyá to the island of Cyprus. The majority of the exiles, numbering about seventy, were sent to ‘Akká, including the two most vicious supporters of Mírzá Yaḥyá. Four of the companions of Bahá’u’lláh, on the other hand, were exiled with Mírzá Yaḥyá’s group to Cyprus.

Bahá’u’lláh and His family left Adrianople on 12 August 1868 and, after a difficult journey by land and sea, arrived in ‘Akká on 31 August. The inhabitants of ‘Akká were accustomed to the arrival of prisoners since the city was used by the Ottomans as a place of banishment for criminals and agitators. This time, they were told that the new arrivals were enemies of the State, of God and His religion. The Sulṭán had ordered that they be kept in strict confinement, confident that the harsh conditions of ‘Akká would lead to their eventual extermination. The order of the Sulṭán had been read publicly in the mosque, and it was understood by all that these Persians had been condemned to perpetual imprisonment and that association with them was strictly forbidden.

Upon disembarking at ‘Akká, the exiles were taken to the army barracks, a section of which was to be their prison. They were deprived of food and drink the first night and, from then on, were each assigned three loaves of low‑quality bread a day. Soon everyone, except for two, fell sick and, shortly after, three of them died. The guards refused to bury the dead without being paid the necessary expenses. A small prayer rug used by Bahá’u’lláh was sold, and the sum was given to the guards. Later, it was learned that they had not kept their word and had buried the dead unwashed, unshrouded, and without coffins. They had in fact been given twice the amount required for the burial.

Although the conditions of imprisonment gradually improved, the first years in ‘Akká were a period of severe suffering for Bahá’u’lláh. What He had endured in the Síyáh‑Chál had been inflicted upon Him solely by the external enemies of the Faith. The turmoil in Adrianople was internal in character. The crisis of those first years in ‘Akká, however, was brought on by forces both external and internal. He Himself refers to this period in words such as the following:

“Know thou that upon Our arrival at this Spot, We chose to designate it as the ‘Most Great Prison’. Though previously subjected in another land (Ṭihrán) to chains and fetters, We yet refused to call it by that name. Say: Ponder thereon, O ye endued with understanding!”

In spite of the order of the Sulṭán that no one should associate with Bahá’u’lláh and His family, a number of believers in Persia made the long journey to ‘Akká, often on foot, with the hope that they might be admitted into His presence. Upon arrival, these devoted souls, unable to approach Him, would stand at a distance, facing His prison, content to catch even a glimpse of His figure through the bars of His window. A wave of His blessed Hand was sufficient reward for months of travel, and most would then turn homeward, thankful for the bounty they had received.

The most tragic event of this period was the sudden death of Bahá’u’lláh’s son Mírzá Mihdí, known as the Purest Branch. One evening, he was on the roof of the barracks, pacing back and forth in prayer and meditation, when he fell through a skylight onto a wooden crate on the floor below. His ribs were pierced and, though a doctor was called in, there was nothing to be done. Within twenty‑two hours, he was dead. Before his passing, Bahá’u’lláh asked the Purest Branch what he wished. He replied: “I wish the people of Bahá to be able to attain Your presence.” “And so it shall be,” Bahá’u’lláh said. “God will grant your wish.”

Severe as Bahá’u’lláh’s sufferings were in the Most Great Prison, it must be remembered that His banishment to ‘Akká was the fulfilment of prophecies of the past. It was in ‘Akká that the Sun of Truth would shine for twenty‑four years in its full splendour. It would be during this period that, while visiting Mount Carmel in nearby Haifa, Bahá’u’lláh would point out to ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá the place where the Shrine of the Báb would later be built. It would be His own resting place in Bahjí, on the outskirts of ‘Akká, that would come to constitute the Holiest Spot on earth, towards which His followers across the globe would turn daily in prayer. It would be in the precincts of the Holy Shrine of the Báb that the Seat of the Universal House of Justice would be established. The twin cities of Haifa and ‘Akká would become the spiritual and administrative world centre of the Bahá’í Faith. Thus, it was with these words that, in a Tablet revealed during the first years spent in Adrianople, Bahá’u’lláh had alluded to His banishment to ‘Akká:

“Upon Our arrival We were welcomed with banners of light, whereupon the Voice of the Spirit cried out saying: ‘Soon will all that dwell on earth be enlisted under these banners.’”

## Part 14

In ‘Akká Bahá’u’lláh continued His universal proclamation. Here are some passages He addressed from Adrianople and ‘Akká to the kings and rulers of the world:

To the Emperor of the French, Napoleon III:

“O King of Paris! Tell the priest to ring the bells no longer. By God, the True One! The Most Mighty Bell hath appeared in the form of Him Who is the Most Great Name . . .”

To Nicolaevitch Alexander II, Czar of Russia:

“Arise thou amongst men in the name of this all‑compelling Cause, and summon, then, the nations unto God, the Exalted, the Great.”

To Queen Victoria of England:

“Lay aside thy desire, and set then thine heart towards thy Lord, the Ancient of Days. We make mention of thee for the sake of God, and desire that thy name may be exalted through thy remembrance of God, the Creator of earth and heaven.”

To William I, King of Prussia:

“Take heed lest pride debar thee from recognising the Dayspring of Divine Revelation, lest earthly desires shut thee out, as by a veil, from the Lord of the Throne above and of the earth below.”

To Francis‑Joseph, Austrian Emperor:

“Open thine eyes, that thou mayest behold this glorious Vision, and recognise Him Whom thou invokest in the daytime and in the night‑season, and gaze on the Light that shineth above this luminous Horizon.”

To Sulṭán ‘Abdu’l‑‘Azíz of the Ottoman Empire:

“Lay not aside the fear of God, and be thou of them that act uprightly. Gather around thee those ministers from whom thou canst perceive the fragrance of faith and of justice, and take thou counsel with them, and choose whatever is best in thy sight, and be of them that act generously.”

To Náṣiri’d‑Dín Sháh of Persia:

“We pray that, out of His bounty—exalted be He—He may release, through this imprisonment, the necks of men from chains and fetters, and cause them to turn, with sincere faces, towards His Face, Who is the Mighty, the Bounteous. Ready is He to answer whosoever calleth upon Him, and nigh is He unto such as commune with Him.”

To the rulers of America and the presidents of its republics:

“Bind ye the broken with the hands of justice, and crush the oppressor who flourisheth with the rod of the commandments of your Lord, the Ordainer, the All‑Wise.”

To Pope Pius IX:

“The Word which the Son concealed is made manifest. It hath been sent down in the form of the human temple in this day. Blessed be the Lord Who is the Father! He, verily, is come unto the nations in His most great majesty.”

To the entire body of monks of the Christian Church:

“O concourse of monks! Seclude not yourselves in churches and cloisters. Come forth by My leave, and occupy yourselves with that which will profit your souls and the souls of men.”

## Part 15

Four months after the sudden death of the Purest Branch, Bahá’u’lláh and His companions had to be removed from the barracks to make way for some army troops. He and His family were placed in several houses for brief periods of time and finally moved into the house known today as the House of ‘Abbúd. They remained under watch and were surrounded by a population that, influenced by the orders of the Sulṭán, was unfriendly and hostile towards them.

With time, however, the people of ‘Akká came to recognise the innocence of this small band of exiles from Persia, and the conditions of their confinement were eased. Much of the change was due to ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, Who was very much in contact with the inhabitants of the city and was able to demonstrate to them the true motives of the Bahá’ís and the spirit of His Father’s teachings. Eventually, Bahá’u’lláh could leave the city of ‘Akká and visit nearby places. Having been confined so long in the walls of a desolate city, He could now pass some time in the countryside and enjoy the beauty and greenery of nature He so loved.

The last years of Bahá’u’lláh’s life were spent in the Mansion of Bahjí, just outside of ‘Akká. Built while He was imprisoned within the city walls, it was abandoned by the owner when an epidemic broke out in the area. ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá was able to acquire it for His beloved Father, first renting it and later purchasing it outright.

By now the attitude of the people of not only ‘Akká but also the nearby regions of Syria and Lebanon towards Bahá’u’lláh and His followers had completely changed. Though the order of the Sulṭán was still in effect, and formally He was a prisoner under strict confinement, He was, in reality, as revered and respected as a king. Even the officials of the region would come to seek His advice and counsel. Thus is the power of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation to transform the human heart.

During those years in ‘Akká and Bahjí, Bahá’u’lláh revealed volumes and volumes of guidance that will enable humanity to build a glorious world civilisation. The mightiest of the works to flow from His Pen was the Kitáb‑i‑Aqdas, the Most Holy Book of His Dispensation, revealed in the House of ‘Abbúd around 1873. Shoghi Effendi, referring to Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings in the Holy Land, explains:

“The writings of Bahá’u’lláh during this period, as we survey the vast field which they embrace, seem to fall into three distinct categories. The first comprises those writings which constitute the sequel to the proclamation of His Mission in Adrianople. The second includes the laws and ordinances of His Dispensation, which, for the most part, have been recorded in the Kitáb‑i‑Aqdas, His Most Holy Book. To the third must be assigned those Tablets which partly enunciate and partly reaffirm the fundamental tenets and principles underlying that Dispensation.”

The great expansion of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh into the Western world did not begin during His own lifetime; this would have to await the period of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá’s Ministry. His teachings, however, had been introduced to countries of the West, and a few there were aware of the Prisoner of ‘Akká Who had remarkable influence on those with whom He came into contact. In the spring of 1890, towards the end of Bahá’u’lláh’s life, Edward Granville Browne, a well‑known scholar from Cambridge, England, came to meet Him. The following passages are from his record of that historic interview:

“. . . my conductor paused for a moment while I removed my shoes. Then, with a quick movement of the hand, he withdrew and, as I passed, replaced the curtain; and I found myself in a large apartment, along the upper end of which ran a low divan, while on the side opposite to the door were placed two or three chairs. Though I dimly suspected whither I was going and whom I was to behold (for no distinct intimation had been given to me), a second or two elapsed ere, with a throb of wonder and awe, I became definitely conscious that the room was not untenanted. In the corner where the divan met the wall sat a wondrous and venerable figure, crowned with a felt headdress of the kind called táj by dervishes (but of unusual height and make), round the base of which was wound a small white turban. The face of him on whom I gazed I can never forget, though I cannot describe it. Those piercing eyes seemed to read one’s very soul; power and authority sat on that ample brow; while the deep lines on the forehead and face implied an age which the jet‑black hair and beard flowing down in indistinguishable luxuriance almost to the waist seemed to belie. No need to ask in whose presence I stood, as I bowed myself before one who is the object of a devotion and love which kings might envy and emperors sigh for in vain!

“A mild dignified voice bade me be seated, and then continued:—‘Praise be to God that thou hast attained! . . . Thou hast come to see a prisoner and an exile. . . . We desire but the good of the world and the happiness of the nations; yet they deem us a stirrer up of strife and sedition worthy of bondage and banishment . . . That all nations should become one in faith and all men as brothers; that the bonds of affection and unity between the sons of men should be strengthened; that diversity of religion should cease and differences of race be annulled—what harm is there in this? . . . Yet so it shall be; these fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away, and the “Most Great Peace” shall come. . . . Do not you in Europe need this also? Is not this that which Christ foretold? . . . Yet do we see your kings and rulers lavishing their treasures more freely on means for the destruction of the human race than on that which would conduce to the happiness of mankind. . . . These strifes and this bloodshed and discord must cease, and all men be as one kindred and one family. . . . Let not a man glory in this, that he loves his country; let him rather glory in this, that he loves his kind. . . . ’”

## Part 16

During the years a Manifestation of God walks in our midst, His extraordinary powers are diffused throughout the world, causing a profound change in the reality of all created things. In this glorious Day, Bahá’u’lláh revealed the Word of God to humanity for almost forty years, endowing the world of being with limitless potentialities, the unfoldment of which will give rise to a civilisation of unimaginable beauty. These four decades of continuous divine Revelation came to an end on 29 May 1892.

Nine months before His ascension, Bahá’u’lláh had expressed His desire to depart from this world. From that time on, it became increasingly clear from the tone of the remarks He made that the close of His life on this earthly plane was approaching. On the night of 8 May, He contracted a slight fever. The fever grew the following day but then seemed to go away. He continued to allow certain of the believers and pilgrims to meet with Him. It soon became evident, however, that He was not well. His fever returned, this time stronger than before, and His condition grew worse. At the hour of dawn on 29 May, in the 75th year of His life, His spirit ascended from this world.

Six days before He passed away, He called to His presence all those assembled in the Mansion of Bahjí for what was to be their last meeting with Him. As He lay in bed supported by one of His sons, He addressed them. “I am well pleased with you all,” He said. “Ye have rendered many services, and been very assiduous in your labours. Ye have come here every morning and every evening. May God assist you to remain united. May He aid you to exalt the Cause of the Lord of being.”63 Tears streamed from the eyes of those gathered around Him.

News of His passing was immediately communicated to the Sulṭán by telegram. The message began with the words “the Sun of Bahá has set” and went on to inform the Sulṭán of the plans to bury the sacred remains near the Mansion. A small room in a house just west of the Mansion was selected, and shortly after sunset on the very day of His ascension, His remains were laid to rest. Nabíl describes the agony of those days in these words: “Methinks, the spiritual commotion set up in the world of dust had caused all the worlds of God to tremble. . . . My inner and outer tongue are powerless to portray the condition we were in. . . . In the midst of the prevailing confusion a multitude of the inhabitants of ‘Akká and of the neighbouring villages, that had thronged the fields surrounding the Mansion, could be seen weeping, beating upon their heads, and crying aloud their grief.”

For a full week, there was a constant flow of mourners who came to express their grief to Bahá’u’lláh’s family. Prominent people from all segments of society, including Muslims, Christians and Jews, poets, clergy and government officials, joined in sorrowing over His loss and in praising His virtues and greatness. Many of them even paid written tributes to Him. Similar tributes were received from cities throughout the region, all of which were submitted to ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, Who now represented the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh. However, these expressions of sorrow were, in the words of the Guardian, “but a drop when compared with the ocean of grief and the innumerable evidences of unbounded devotion which, at the hour of the setting of the Sun of Truth, poured forth from the hearts of the countless thousands who had espoused His Cause, and were determined to carry aloft its banner in Persia, India, Russia, ‘Iráq, Turkey, Palestine, Egypt and Syria.”

## Summary

Bahá’u’lláh was born on 12 November 1817 in Ṭihrán, the capital of Írán. From His childhood, He showed signs of greatness. He received some instruction at home but did not need to attend school, for He was endowed by God with innate knowledge.

One night, His father had a dream in which he saw Bahá’u’lláh swimming in an ocean. The light radiating from His body illuminated the waters. His long black hair floated in all directions, and a multitude of fish followed Him, each holding on to the end of one hair. He moved freely and unhindered. This dream was one of the many indications of the great destiny that awaited Bahá’u’lláh.

Later, when He was a young man, Bahá’u’lláh was offered a high position in the court of the king, but He refused it. He wished to dedicate His time to helping the oppressed, the sick and the poor and to champion the cause of justice.

When He was 27 years old, Bahá’u’lláh received a scroll of Writings from the Báb, the new Messenger of God, Who was preparing the people for the coming of the Promise of All Ages. Bahá’u’lláh accepted the Báb’s Message and became one of His most enthusiastic supporters.

The authorities, unwilling to accept the truth proclaimed by the Báb, set out to persecute those who believed in Him, and thus began the sufferings of Bahá’u’lláh. In the year 1852, He was arrested and put in chains in one of the most dreadful prisons of Ṭihrán.

In this prison, God revealed to Bahá’u’lláh that He was the One promised by the Báb and all the Prophets of the past. From this dark dungeon rose the Sun of Truth, illuminating the world and giving birth to a new Day in the life of humanity.

After four months of imprisonment, the government banished Bahá’u’lláh from His native land. During the bitter cold of winter, Bahá’u’lláh and His family made the long journey from Ṭihrán to Baghdád.

In Baghdád, the fame of Bahá’u’lláh’s wisdom spread in all directions. People of every background crowded to His home, seeking His help and advice. The government, which was afraid of Bahá’u’lláh’s influence, decided to banish Him even farther from His homeland.

Before leaving Baghdád, Bahá’u’lláh spent twelve days in a garden outside the city, where streams of visitors came to bid Him farewell. In this garden, Bahá’u’lláh proclaimed that He was the Manifestation of God for this Day. For centuries to come, this twelve‑day period in April will be celebrated as the Festival of Riḍván, the anniversary of the Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh of His world‑embracing Mission.

Bahá’u’lláh’s next place of exile was Constantinople and, later, Adrianople, both cities in today’s Turkey. From Adrianople, Bahá’u’lláh, a prisoner and an exile, sent letters to the kings and rulers of the world bidding them to uphold justice and to use their power to put an end to misery and war.

In Adrianople, as before, Bahá’u’lláh’s fame spread among the inhabitants of the region, and the government decided to banish Him even farther away to the prison‑city of ‘Akká. This was the prison to which the worst criminals and agitators of the land were sent, never to be heard of again.

The conditions of imprisonment were extremely severe. Some of the followers of Bahá’u’lláh travelled great distances to ‘Akká but were not allowed to enter His presence. They could only catch a glimpse of Him from afar as He waved to them from the window of His prison‑cell.

Gradually conditions improved as growing numbers of people in the region came to recognise Bahá’u’lláh’s power and majesty. During the last years of His life, He lived in the Mansion of Bahjí outside the city walls. In ‘Akká, Bahá’u’lláh revealed volumes of guidance for humanity, including the Kitáb‑i‑Aqdas, His Most Holy Book.

In May 1892 Bahá’u’lláh passed away. His resting place in Bahjí, now surrounded by beautiful gardens, is the most Holy Spot on earth. Every year, thousands from around the world visit His resting place to pay their respects and to pray and meditate in the tranquil surroundings.

# Book 5: Stories of Junior youth

## Story 1

The first account is in the words of a thirteen‑year‑old boy—call him Peter to hide his real identity—who had seen the effects of violence and war since he was eight years old. When he was thirteen, he began to promote peace in schools and youth organisations, accepting the consequences, which included harsh ridicule from some of his peers:

None of it bothered me. My family believed it was important to care about the community and to do whatever we could to help. Even though I was only thirteen, I could see that the biggest problems facing us were violence and the war. Peace was needed more than anything else. Of course, it is hard for a child to try to make peace, but trying is the only way anything ever happens. . . .

So many lies have been told in my country for so many years that people do not know what or who to believe any more. They cannot always trust the newspapers, the radio or television, the politicians, the armed groups—but when they hear children talking about the violence and the way it affects us and how we want peace, somehow they know they are hearing the truth. . . .

Some people say they are fighting for the poor, but the poor have suffered more than anyone else in the war. I think that some people are also fighting for revenge, or for power, or because they feel that they have no other choice. Some young people join the armed groups because their families are poor and they see no other way out.

Peter and his family, threatened during ongoing civil strife, had to move out of their home. His father went back and forth between his office and the new town where they lived, but the relative calm they enjoyed could not be maintained. His father’s active support of the processes of peace finally resulted in his assassination:

I thought I understood about war because I lived in the thick of the conflict. There were battles in the streets during the night. I was often woken up by gunfire. When I went to school in the morning, I saw the evidence—the blood on the sidewalks, the bullet‑riddled buildings. And I had seen the victims at the morgue, not far from my father’s office.

I had talked about this with confidence, as if I knew what the war meant—but when my father was murdered, I was shattered not just by grief, but because then I understood the war. I knew what it felt like to want to fight. I realised that no matter how much you want peace, you take a step towards violence when the war hits you personally. This is the same trap that has caught so many people in my country. . . .

Nothing was the same afterwards. The house felt like a dead empty shell. The streets that were so familiar all looked strange. Nothing and nowhere felt safe. I thought all my work for peace was worth nothing because it had not saved my father. The horrific violence that had engulfed our town had finally struck the heart of my family—and I had been unable to stop it. I blamed myself. I asked myself, “What had I done that my father should die in such a violent way?”

The family continued to receive threats, and Peter bought a gun in order to protect his loved ones. One evening, about ten days after his father was killed, the members of Peter’s family were gathered in a room on the upper floor of their house. As Peter came down to the kitchen, he saw an intruder with a gun in the garden looking up to the secondfloor windows:

I knew that I could get my gun and kill this man. . . . It would be taking revenge for my father’s death. I would be protecting my family. And almost no one in my country would blame me for shooting him . . . Yet while all of this was true I did nothing. . . . My father had wanted me to work for peace. How could I become violent now? The only way I could show respect and love for my father, the only way I could help save my family, was by trying to make peace. Killing the man would bring no peace to me, or my family or my country. In fact, by killing him I would lose everything. I would be no better than he was.

Peter quietly watched the intruder, who, after a while and for no apparent reason, turned away and left. Not long after that incident, Peter got rid of his gun and vowed never again to acquire one.

## Story 2

Mary—also an assumed name—was raised in an environment in which there was a constant threat of conflict; she discovered the price of disagreeing with a group of friends at an early age:

When I was eleven I was given the silent treatment myself, because I refused to take sides in an argument. A group of my friends had accused a girl in our class of stealing and a huge conflict erupted. You had to be either for this girl, or against her, and all my friends were against her. Everyone assumed I would stand by them, but there was no evidence that the girl was a thief. I couldn’t be sure. I didn’t want to oppose my friends, though, so I just said nothing. Everyone got mad and, for a whole year, no one spoke to me.

Mary befriended a young man, and even though other girls teased her about him, she developed warm feelings towards him. They used to take long walks together and talk about their future until one day she found him cleaning a gun she did not know he owned:

When I walked in, he gave me a smile, as if he were doing nothing out of the ordinary. I have always hated violence, hated guns, and hated the war. He tried to make excuses, the way people like that do, but I told him right away it was over between us. “I don’t want this kind of life for myself or for my children,” I said. I was so young it seems like a joke now but I felt like my world was breaking in two.

Mary’s school grades began to fall after this incident, and her mother grew concerned. Then Mary spoke with one of her teachers:

I spilled the whole story of my friend, the gun, the silence of my friends, the teasing of the girls, my embarrassment, and broken heart. He didn’t laugh at me, or make me feel young and ridiculous. . . .

“You must understand,” he told me, “that you hold your own future in your own hands. Your future does not belong to anyone else, not to your parents, and especially not to this boy. It is yours and you can make of it anything you want.”

At the age of fourteen, Mary was already a student leader at her school, promoting peace among her peers and the younger students. Here are some of the thoughts that occupied her mind in those days:

We knew that ending poverty could help end the war, but we could do nothing about that. We knew that reducing unemployment would help, but we could do nothing about that either. We could not stop the bullets and the machetes. We could not end the violence. But we believed we could begin to build peace among ourselves. . . .

I knew that working for peace could be dangerous, and I was sensitive to anything that was out of the ordinary. Sometimes just the fear that anything bad could happen, especially to my family, made me weep and feel like running away. Yet the other children depended on me, and in a way I felt my own unborn children were depending on me too. I could not turn away, no matter how afraid I was. I could only be careful and try to stay safe.

## Story 3

Here are accounts given by three other young people, each of whom expresses the noblest thoughts and the most tender emotions. The first is in the words of a sixteen‑year‑old girl, who, at the age of twelve, experienced the loss of a close friend that was caught in a gang fight and stabbed to death. She never forgot her friend and decided to dedicate herself to the promotion of peace. Later, she started to help children affected by violence:

Children as young as eight or nine years old joined gangs because they thought it was cool or because they thought the gangs would give them protection on the street. In a lot of cases they were just trying to escape from violence at home, but they found something even worse on the street.

I have to take the bus to . . . , but most of the bus drivers know about the work I am trying to do. They charge only what I can afford for the fare and often let me ride for free. The road to . . . winds upwards, past rough shacks perched dangerously close to steep cliffs. The hills are deeply scarred where rocks have been removed for use in construction projects. Such work is hard, backbreaking, and poorly paid but many children from displaced families work on these sites. Their families have fallen into such deep poverty that the children drop out of school and do whatever they can to earn money.

From the road, I walk ankle deep in slippery mud, across a makeshift footbridge that spans a stinking, contaminated river. The school consists of half a dozen dilapidated rooms, clustered under a tin roof. The wooden desks are battered and broken. Rubbish litters the sides of the classrooms. There is no electricity. One of the classrooms has only a skylight and no other windows. The floor is made of dirt. The rain thunders so noisily on the roof that everyone has to shout to be heard, and water leaks through everywhere. One classroom wall is decorated with paintings done by the children, of pretty houses that contrast sharply with their surroundings. Perhaps these are images of the homes they once had or that they long for in the future. . . .

Many of the parents have sadness in their faces. They talk aggressively to their children, calling them names. But during the workshops they sometimes begin to change. Some of them think they have to beat their children to make them behave, but then they realise that beating can also drive a child away and onto the streets.

## Story 4

The next paragraph provides the thoughts of a young girl who fled from home at the age of eleven, became addicted to drugs, was saved by the persistent help of a friend, and finally joined a youth movement dedicated to peace:

It was so hard to explain what our lives were really like. I was afraid to admit that no matter how much you try to make peace, you can still get dragged back into violence. . . . I have always longed to escape from this life. It is hard to admit but right now I am once again slipping away from the peace movement. I have been lying to myself and pretending to my friends that everything is fine. This is not true. Sometimes I get high. Every night there are fights at home. If they are not yelling at me, my mother and stepfather are yelling at each other. I cannot stand it, so I escape to the streets, and there is a lot out there that can do a young person harm. . . . I walk two paths at the same time and I still wish I could walk the peace path all the time. I think that my struggle and the way I survived should be worth something. . . . I believe that young people would do a lot more to help peace if more adults were willing to cooperate, to listen to what we have learned and work with us. If we had peace at home, that would be a great beginning.

## Story 5

The last passage describes the experience of a boy of fifteen whose brother was kidnapped by a revolutionary group. After some time, the family received news from him while in captivity, and they were allowed to correspond with him:

I have sent poems to him, to inspire him to stay confident and hopeful. I tell him that I listen to his advice and study hard. I was very glad when he recently wrote back and said, “I am happy you’re doing so well in school. . . . That’s where I went wrong. I regret not having made the most of my studies. . . . I really didn’t like reading, for example . . . yet here I have read over thirty books of all different kinds and there are still more to read. I even get the dictionary and look up weird words that I don’t know. . . . I would never have done this of my own accord before. . . .”

Even though he seems safe, I still worry. If I could talk to the people who are holding my brother, I would ask them to have compassion and to understand the suffering they have caused.

I think that forgiveness is fundamental if we are to achieve peace. The war cannot come to an end without forgiveness. It is especially important for people like us who have suffered to forgive.

I think that this is what I am working for—I work for forgiveness.

# Book 5: Story of Rúḥu’lláh

Finally, no exploration of the nature of adolescence, however brief, can ignore the life of Rúḥu’lláh, the young hero of the Faith who, at the age of twelve, joyfully drank from the cup of martyrdom. At the young age of seven, Rúḥu’lláh was granted the privilege of accompanying his father, Hand of the Cause of God Varqá, and his older brother on pilgrimage to the Holy Land. Rúḥu’lláh thrived spiritually in those sacred surroundings and basked in the sunshine of Bahá’u’lláh’s presence. One day, we are told, Bahá’u’lláh asked Rúḥu’lláh, “What did you do today?”

“I was having lessons from [a certain teacher]” was the reply.

“What subject were you learning?” Bahá’u’lláh inquired further.

“Concerning the return [of the prophets]”, Rúḥu’lláh responded.

“Will you explain what this means?” asked Bahá’u’lláh.

“By ‘return’ is meant the return of realities and qualities,” he answered.

“These are exactly the words of your teacher,” Bahá’u’lláh observed. “Tell me in your own words your own understanding of the subject.”

To this, Rúḥu’lláh replied: “It is like cutting a flower from a plant this year. Next year’s flower will look exactly like this one, but it is not the same.”

Rúḥu’lláh’s intelligent answer pleased Bahá’u’lláh, Who often referred to him as Jináb‑i‑Muballigh (His honour, the Bahá’í teacher).

There are a number of other accounts that bring to light Rúḥu’lláh’s sublime qualities. It is certainly true that, to scale the heights of sacrifice that he attained at the tender age of twelve, he could not have been any ordinary young person. Consecration to the Cause and sacrifice in the path of the Beloved need not, of course, be associated with martyrdom. Yet with what longing and boundless joy does Rúḥu’lláh describe the mystery of sacrifice in his celebrated poem quoted, in part, below.

> From the cup of divine bounty give me to drink
> And rid me of sin and weakness;
> For though my sins be great indeed,
> The mercy of my Lord is greater still.

> Welcome to thee, cup‑bearer of the divine banquet!
> Come thou, refresh my soul and make
> Me worthy of being sacrificed
> In the path of the Best‑Beloved.

# Book 6: The Life of Bahá’u’lláh

Bahá’u’lláh was born in 1817 in Ṭihrán, the capital of Írán. From His early childhood, He showed signs of greatness. Though He received some instruction at home, He was not in need of schooling, for He was endowed by God with innate knowledge. Bahá’u’lláh came from a noble family and, when He was a young man, was offered a high position in the court of the king, but He refused it. He wished to dedicate His time to helping the oppressed, the sick and the poor and to championing the cause of justice.

There are two aspects of Bahá’u’lláh’s life which I would like to mention in particular. One is the suffering He endured. The other is the tremendous influence He had on the hearts and minds of people. These actually characterise the lives of all the Manifestations of God.

Bahá’u’lláh’s sufferings began the moment He arose to proclaim the Cause of God. His life was one of exile, imprisonment, and persecution. He was put in chains in a dark and dismal dungeon in Ṭihrán. He was exiled four times from land to land. In one of His Tablets revealed during this long banishment, He wrote:

“Remember My days during thy days, and My distress and banishment in this remote prison. And be thou so steadfast in My love that thy heart shall not waver, even if the swords of the enemies rain blows upon thee and all the heavens and the earth arise against thee.”

Bahá’u’lláh was eventually sent to the prison‑city of ‘Akká in the Ottoman Empire. So intense were His sufferings there that He has referred to ‘Akká as the “Most Great Prison”. I always carry in my bag a small notebook in which I write passages from the Bahá’í writings that have particularly touched my heart. Let me read for you what Bahá’u’lláh has said about His sufferings:

“The Ancient Beauty hath consented to be bound with chains that mankind may be released from its bondage, and hath accepted to be made a prisoner within this most mighty Stronghold that the whole world may attain unto true liberty. He hath drained to its dregs the cup of sorrow, that all the peoples of the earth may attain unto abiding joy, and be filled with gladness. This is of the mercy of your Lord, the Compassionate, the Most Merciful. We have accepted to be abased, O believers in the Unity of God, that ye may be exalted, and have suffered manifold afflictions, that ye might prosper and flourish. He Who hath come to build anew the whole world, behold, how they that have joined partners with God have forced Him to dwell within the most desolate of cities!”

Every effort was made by two powerful courts—those of the king of Írán and the Ottoman Emperor—to oppose Bahá’u’lláh and to halt the spread of His teachings. But the Light of Truth cannot be so easily extinguished. The very water that is poured on this fire to put out its flame turns into oil, and the fire burns with more intensity. Nothing could be done to stop Bahá’u’lláh’s growing influence. The farther the authorities banished Him, the greater the number of people who were attracted to His teachings and recognised His power and majesty. In spite of constant persecution, Bahá’u’lláh continued to reveal the Word of God for more than forty years and released such tremendous spiritual energy that it will ultimately regenerate the whole world.

Bahá’u’lláh passed away in 1892. His Shrine, which we consider the Holiest Spot on earth, is located near the city of ‘Akká. Here are some pictures of the entrance to the Shrine and the gardens surrounding it. You don’t know how much I would like to go on pilgrimage to the Holy Land. I hope, someday, you will be able to do so as well.

# Book 6: The Life of the Báb

Several years before Bahá’u’lláh proclaimed His Mission, God sent a special Messenger to announce His coming. This great Personage, Himself a Manifestation of God, took the title “the Báb”, which means “the Gate”. He was indeed a gate to the knowledge of God and to a new era in human existence. For six years He taught ceaselessly that the appearance of One still greater than Himself was near and prepared the way for His coming. He told the people that they were witnessing the dawn of a new age, the dawn of the Promised Day of God. He called upon them to purify their hearts from earthly vanities so that they could recognise “Him Whom God shall make manifest”.

Thousands upon thousands of people accepted the message of the Báb and began to follow His teachings. But the government of Írán and the powerful clergy who ruled over the masses rose against Him. His followers were persecuted and large numbers were put to death. The Báb Himself at the age of 31 was martyred by a regiment of soldiers who, at the orders of the government, suspended Him in a public square and opened fire on Him.

So that you can see how penetrating the words of the Báb are, I would like to recite for you two of His prayers:

“Is there any Remover of difficulties save God? Say: Praised be God! He is God! All are His servants, and all abide by His bidding!”

“Say: God sufficeth all things above all things, and nothing in the heavens or in the earth but God sufficeth. Verily, He is in Himself the Knower, the Sustainer, the Omnipotent.”

Many Bahá’ís know especially the first prayer by heart and recite it in times of difficulties. If you want, we can pause a little, and you can memorise it. It is really easy to do so.

After the memorisation, Anna continues:

Soon after His martyrdom, the remains of the Báb were recovered by His followers and taken from place to place, always hidden from the enemies of the Faith. Finally they were transferred to Mount Carmel in the Holy Land. Here are some pictures of His Shrine in Haifa and a few other Holy Places in that city and in the city of ‘Akká, which is across the bay. Today these twin cities are the spiritual and administrative centre of the Bahá’í Faith—the spiritual centre because it is here that the Shrines of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, as well as other Holy Places, are located, and the administrative centre because it is on Mount Carmel that the Seat of the supreme governing body of the Faith, the Universal House of Justice, is situated.

# Book 6: The Life of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá

The idea most central to our lives as Bahá’ís is that we have entered into a covenant with Bahá’u’lláh. As you know, in all other religions, after the passing of the Manifestation, His followers had endless disputes among themselves and, as a result, split the religion into many sects. The cause of disunity was sometimes the desire for leadership on the part of certain ambitious individuals. But, when differences of opinion arose between even sincere believers about what the words of the Manifestation meant, no one had been authorised by the Manifestation Himself to settle the disagreements, and this contributed to conflict and dissension. Each set of interpretations led to the creation of a different sect.

Bahá’u’lláh has protected His Faith against such division by endowing it with a unique power, the power of the Covenant. Before His passing, He stated in the clearest terms, in writing, that after Him, all Bahá’ís should turn to ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá. ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, His oldest Son, was thus named the sole Interpreter of His words and the Centre of His Covenant. He had been raised by Bahá’u’lláh Himself, had recognised His Station even as a child, and had shared in the sufferings of His Father. He was a most precious gift given to humanity, the perfect Exemplar of all Bahá’í teachings.

‘Abdu’l‑Bahá lived on this earth for 77 years. He was born on the same night the Báb declared His Mission in 1844 and passed away in November 1921. His life was filled with affliction, but to everyone who entered His presence He brought the greatest joy and happiness. After the passing of His Father, the responsibility for the Bahá’í community fell on His shoulders, and He laboured day and night to spread the Faith throughout the East and the West. He wrote thousands of Tablets to individuals and groups everywhere and clarified the teachings of His Father. His interpretations are now an essential part of the Writings of the Bahá’í Faith.

By focusing on ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá as the Centre of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant, the Bahá’ís of the world remain united in their efforts to live a Bahá’í life and to contribute to the transformation of society. We remember that, as part of our promise to Bahá’u’lláh, we are to love one another and, in ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, we see the perfect manifestation of love. We remember that we must uphold justice, that we must be generous, that we must overlook the faults of others, and from the example of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá we learn justice, generosity and forgiveness. More than anything else, by keeping our focus on ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, we are always aware of our covenant with Bahá’u’lláh that we will not allow the unity of His followers to be broken and that, united as a worldwide community, we will labour until the oneness of humankind has been firmly established.

In His Will and Testament, ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá named His grandson Shoghi Effendi the Guardian of the Faith, who, after His passing, became the authorised interpreter of the words of Bahá’u’lláh. For thirty‑six years, he continued the work of his Grandfather, clarifying the teachings of the Manifestation and firmly establishing His Faith in all parts of the planet. Five and a half years after his passing, the Bahá’ís of the world elected the Universal House of Justice, as envisioned by Bahá’u’lláh and clearly described by ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá and the Guardian. The Universal House of Justice is the supreme institution of the Faith to which all the Bahá’ís of the world now turn.

# Book 7: The Seven Martyrs of Ṭihrán

1. Ḥájí Mírzá Siyyid ‘Alí, surnamed Khál‑i‑A‘ẓam, the Báb’s maternal uncle, and one of the leading merchants of Shíráz. It was this same uncle into whose custody the Báb, after the death of His father, was entrusted, and who, on his Nephew’s return from His pilgrimage to Hijáz and His arrest by Ḥusayn Khán, assumed undivided responsibility for Him by pledging his word in writing. It was he who surrounded Him, while under his care, with unfailing solicitude, who served Him with such devotion, and who acted as intermediary between Him and the hosts of His followers who flocked to Shíráz to see Him. His only child, a Siyyid Javád, died in infancy. Towards the middle of the year 1265 a.h., this same Ḥájí Mírzá Siyyid ‘Alí left Shíráz and visited the Báb in the castle of Chihríq. From thence he went to Ṭihrán and, though having no special occupation, remained in that city until the outbreak of the sedition which brought about eventually his martyrdom.

Though his friends appealed to him to escape the turmoil that was fast approaching, he refused to heed their counsel and faced, until his last hour, with complete resignation, the persecution to which he was subjected. A considerable number among the more affluent merchants of his acquaintance offered to pay his ransom, an offer which he rejected. Finally he was brought before the Amír‑Niẓám. ‘The Chief Magistrate of this realm,’ the Grand Vazír informed him, ‘is loth to inflict the slightest injury upon the Prophet’s descendants. Eminent merchants of Shíráz and Ṭihrán are willing, nay eager, to pay your ransom. The Maliku’t‑Tujjár has even interceded in your behalf. A word of recantation from you is sufficient to set you free and ensure your return, with honours, to your native city. I pledge my word that, should you be willing to acquiesce, the remaining days of your life will be spent with honour and dignity under the sheltering shadow of your sovereign.’ ‘Your Excellency,’ boldly replied Ḥájí Mírzá Siyyid ‘Alí, ‘if others before me, who quaffed joyously the cup of martyrdom, have chosen to reject an appeal such as the one you now make to me, know of a certainty that I am no less eager to decline such a request. My repudiation of the truths enshrined in this Revelation would be tantamount to a rejection of all the Revelations that have preceded it. To refuse to acknowledge the Mission of the Siyyid‑i‑Báb would be to apostatise from the Faith of my forefathers and to deny the Divine character of the Message which Muḥammad, Jesus, Moses, and all the Prophets of the past have revealed. God knows that whatever I have heard and read concerning the sayings and doings of those Messengers, I have been privileged to witness the same from this Youth, this beloved Kinsman of mine, from His earliest boyhood to this, the thirtieth year of His life. Everything in Him reminds me of His illustrious Ancestor and of the imáms of His Faith whose lives our recorded traditions have portrayed. I only request of you that you allow me to be the first to lay down my life in the path of my beloved Kinsman.’

The Amír was stupefied by such an answer. In a frenzy of despair, and without uttering a word, he motioned that he be taken out and beheaded. As the victim was being conducted to his death, he was heard, several times, to repeat these words of Ḥáfiẓ: ‘Great is my gratitude to Thee, O my God, for having granted so bountifully all I have asked of Thee.’ ‘Hear me, O people,’ he cried to the multitude that pressed around him; ‘I have offered myself up as a willing sacrifice in the path of the Cause of God. The entire province of Fárs, as well as ‘Iráq, beyond the confines of Persia, will readily testify to my uprightness of conduct, to my sincere piety and noble lineage. For over a thousand years, you have prayed and prayed again that the promised Qá’im be made manifest. At the mention of His name, how often have you cried, from the depths of your hearts: “Hasten, O God, His coming; remove every barrier that stands in the way of His appearance!” And now that He is come, you have driven Him to a hopeless exile in a remote and sequestered corner of Ádhirbáyján and have risen to exterminate His companions. Were I to invoke the malediction of God upon you, I am certain that His avenging wrath would grievously afflict you. Such is not, however, my prayer. With my last breath, I pray that the Almighty may wipe away the stain of your guilt and enable you to awaken from the sleep of heedlessness.’

These words stirred his executioner to his very depths. Pretending that the sword he had been holding in readiness in his hands required to be resharpened, he hastily went away, determined never to return again. ‘When I was appointed to this service,’ he was heard to complain, weeping bitterly the while, ‘they undertook to deliver into my hands only those who had been convicted of murder and highway robbery. I am now ordered by them to shed the blood of one no less holy than the Imám Músáy‑i‑Káẓim himself!’ Shortly after, he departed for Khurásán and there sought to earn his livelihood as a porter and crier. To the believers of that province, he recounted the tale of that tragedy, and expressed his repentance of the act which he had been compelled to perpetrate. Every time he recalled that incident, every time the name of Ḥájí Mírzá Siyyid ‘Alí was mentioned to him, tears which he could not repress flowed from his eyes, tears that were a witness to the affection which that holy man had instilled into his heart.

***

2. Mírzá Qurbán‑‘Alí, a native of Bárfurúsh in the province of Mázindarán, and an outstanding figure in the community known by the name of Ni‘matu’lláhí. He was a man of sincere piety and endowed with great nobleness of nature. Such was the purity of his life that a considerable number among the notables of Mázindarán, of Khurásán and Ṭihrán had pledged him their loyalty, and regarded him as the very embodiment of virtue. Such was the esteem in which he was held by his countrymen that, on the occasion of his pilgrimage to Karbilá, a vast concourse of devoted admirers thronged his route in order to pay their homage to him. In Hamadán, as well as in Kirmánsháh, a great number of people were influenced by his personality and joined the company of his followers. Wherever he went, he was greeted with the acclamations of the people. These demonstrations of popular enthusiasm were, however, extremely distasteful to him. He avoided the crowd and disdained the pomp and circumstance of leadership. On his way to Karbilá, while passing through Mandalíj, a shaykh of considerable influence became so enamoured of him that he renounced all that he had formerly cherished and, leaving his friends and disciples, followed him as far as Ya‘qúbíyyih. Mírzá Qurbán‑‘Alí, however, succeeded in inducing him to return to Mandalíj and resume the work which he had abandoned.

On his return from his pilgrimage, Mírzá Qurbán‑‘Alí met Mullá Ḥusayn and through him embraced the truth of the Cause. Owing to illness, he was unable to join the defenders of the fort of Ṭabarsí, and, but for his unfitness to travel to Mázindarán, would have been the first to join its occupants. Next to Mullá Ḥusayn, among the disciples of the Báb, Vaḥíd was the person to whom he was most attached. During my visit to Ṭihrán, I was informed that the latter had consecrated his life to the service of the Cause and had risen with exemplary devotion to promote its interests far and wide. I often heard Mírzá Qurbán‑‘Alí, who was then in the capital, deplore that illness. ‘How greatly I grieve,’ I heard him several times remark, ‘to have been deprived of my share of the cup which Mullá Ḥusayn and his companions have quaffed! I long to join Vaḥíd and enrol myself under his banner and strive to make amends for my previous failure.’ He was preparing to leave Ṭihrán, when he was suddenly arrested. His modest attire witnessed to the degree of his detachment. Clad in a white tunic, after the manner of the Arabs, cloaked in a coarsely woven ‘abá, and wearing the headdress of the people of ‘Iráq, he seemed, as he walked the streets, the very embodiment of renunciation. He scrupulously adhered to all the observances of his Faith, and with exemplary piety performed his devotions. ‘The Báb Himself conforms to the observances of His Faith in their minutest details,’ he often remarked. ‘Am I to neglect on my part the things which are observed by my Leader?’

When Mírzá Qurbán‑‘Alí was arrested and brought before the Amír‑Niẓám, a commotion such as Ṭihrán had rarely experienced was raised. Large crowds of people thronged the approaches to the headquarters of the government, eager to learn what would befall him. ‘Since last night,’ the Amír, as soon as he had seen him, remarked, ‘I have been besieged by all classes of State officials who have vigorously interceded in your behalf. From what I learn of the position you occupy and the influence your words exercise, you are not much inferior to the Siyyid‑i‑Báb Himself. Had you claimed for yourself the position of leadership, better would it have been than to declare your allegiance to one who is certainly inferior to you in knowledge.’ ‘The knowledge which I have acquired,’ he boldly retorted, ‘has led me to bow down in allegiance before Him whom I have recognised to be my Lord and Leader. Ever since I attained the age of manhood, I have regarded justice and fairness as the ruling motives of my life. I have judged Him fairly, and have reached the conclusion that should this Youth, to whose transcendent power friend and foe alike testify, be false, every Prophet of God, from time immemorial down to the present day, should be denounced as the very embodiment of falsehood! I am assured of the unquestioning devotion of over a thousand admirers, and yet I am powerless to change the heart of the least among them. This Youth, however, has proved Himself capable of transmuting, through the elixir of His love, the souls of the most degraded among His fellowmen. Upon a thousand like me He has, unaided and alone, exerted such influence that, without even attaining His presence, they have flung aside their own desires and have clung passionately to His will. Fully conscious of the inadequacy of the sacrifice they have made, these yearn to lay down their lives for His sake, in the hope that this further evidence of their devotion may be worthy of mention in His Court.’

‘I am loth,’ the Amír‑Niẓám remarked, ‘whether your words be of God or not, to pronounce the sentence of death against the possessor of so exalted a station.’ ‘Why hesitate?’ burst forth the impatient victim. ‘Are you not aware that all names descend from Heaven? He whose name is ‘Alí, in whose path I am laying down my life, has from time immemorial inscribed my name, Qurbán‑‘Alí, in the scroll of His chosen martyrs. This is indeed the day on which I celebrate the Qurbán festival, the day on which I shall seal with my life‑blood my faith in His Cause. Be not, therefore, reluctant, and rest assured that I shall never blame you for your act. The sooner you strike off my head, the greater will be my gratitude to you.’ ‘Take him away from this place!’ cried the Amír. ‘Another moment, and this dervish will have cast his spell over me!’ ‘You are proof against that magic,’ Mírzá Qurbán‑‘Alí replied, ‘that can captivate only the pure in heart. You and your like can never be made to realise the entrancing power of that Divine elixir which, swift as the twinkling of an eye, transmutes the souls of men.’

Exasperated by the reply, the Amír‑Niẓám arose from his seat and, his whole frame shaking with anger, exclaimed: ‘Nothing but the edge of the sword can silence the voice of this deluded people!’ ‘No need,’ he told the executioners who were in attendance upon him, ‘to bring any more members of this hateful sect before me. Words are powerless to overcome their unswerving obstinacy. Whomever you are able to induce to recant his faith, release him; as for the rest, strike off their heads.’

As he drew near the scene of his death, Mírzá Qurbán‑‘Alí, intoxicated with the prospect of an approaching reunion with his Beloved, broke forth into expressions of joyous exultation. ‘Hasten to slay me,’ he cried with rapturous delight, ‘for through this death you will have offered me the chalice of everlasting life. Though my withered breath you now extinguish, with a myriad lives will my Beloved reward me; lives such as no mortal heart can conceive!’ ‘Hearken to my words, you who profess to be the followers of the Apostle of God,’ he pleaded, as he turned his gaze to the concourse of spectators. ‘Muḥammad, the Daystar of Divine guidance, who in a former age arose above the horizon of Ḥijáz, has today, in the person of ‘Alí‑Muḥammad, again risen from the Dayspring of Shíráz, shedding the same radiance and imparting the same warmth. A rose is a rose in whichever garden, and at whatever time, it may bloom.’ Seeing on every side how the people were deaf to his call, he cried aloud: ‘Oh, the perversity of this generation! How heedless of the fragrance which that imperishable Rose has shed! Though my soul brim over with ecstasy, I can, alas, find no heart to share with me its charm, nor mind to apprehend its glory.’

At the sight of the body of Ḥájí Mírzá Siyyid ‘Alí, beheaded and bleeding at his feet, his fevered excitement rose to its highest pitch. ‘Hail,’ he shouted as he flung himself upon it, ‘hail the day of mutual rejoicing, the day of our reunion with our Beloved!’ ‘Approach,’ he cried to the executioner, as he held the body in his arms, ‘and strike your blow, for my faithful comrade is unwilling to release himself from my embrace, and calls me to hasten together with him to the court of the Well‑Beloved.’ A blow from the executioner fell immediately upon the nape of his neck. A few moments later, and the soul of that great man had passed away. That cruel stroke stirred in the bystanders feelings of mingled indignation and sympathy. Cries of sorrow and lamentation ascended from the hearts of the multitude, and provoked a distress that was reminiscent of the outbursts of grief with which every year the populace greets the day of ‘Áshúrá.

***

3. Then came the turn of Ḥájí Mullá Ismá‘íl‑i‑Qumí, who was a native of Faráhán. In his early youth, he departed for Karbilá in quest of the Truth which he was diligently striving to discover. He had associated with all the leading ‘ulamás of Najaf and Karbilá, had sat at the feet of Siyyid Káẓim, and had acquired from him the knowledge and understanding which enabled him, a few years later when in Shíráz, to acknowledge the Revelation of the Báb. He distinguished himself by the tenacity of his faith and the fervour of his devotion. As soon as the injunction of the Báb, bidding His followers hasten to Khurásán, reached him, he enthusiastically responded, joined the companions who were proceeding to Badasht, and there received the appellation of Sirru’l‑Vujúd. Whilst in their company, his understanding of the Cause grew deeper and his zeal for its promotion correspondingly increased. He grew to be the very embodiment of detachment, and felt more and more impatient to demonstrate in a befitting manner the spirit with which his Faith had inspired him. In the exposition of the meaning of the verses of the Qur’án and the traditions of Islám, he displayed an insight which few could rival, and the eloquence with which he set forth those truths won him the admiration of his fellow‑disciples. In the days when the fort of Ṭabarsí had become the rallying centre for the disciples of the Báb, he languished disconsolate upon a sickbed, unable to lend his assistance and play his part for its defence. No sooner had he recovered than, finding that that memorable siege had ended with the massacre of his fellow‑disciples, he arose, with added determination, to make up by his self‑sacrificing labours for the loss which the Cause had sustained. That determination carried him eventually to the field of martyrdom and won him its crown.

Conducted to the block and waiting for the moment of his execution, he turned his gaze towards those twin martyrs who had preceded him and who still lay entwined in each other’s embrace. ‘Well done, beloved companions!’ he cried, as he fixed his gaze upon their gory heads. ‘You have turned Ṭihrán into a paradise! Would that I had preceded you!’ Drawing from his pocket a coin, which he handed to his executioner, he begged him to purchase for him something with which he could sweeten his mouth. He took some of it and gave the rest to him, saying: ‘I have forgiven you your act; approach and deal your blow. For thirty years I have yearned to witness this blessed day, and was fearful lest I should carry this wish with me unfulfilled to the grave.’ ‘Accept me, O my God,’ he cried, as he turned his eyes to heaven, ‘unworthy though I be, and deign to inscribe my name upon the scroll of those immortals who have laid down their lives on the altar of sacrifice.’ He was still offering his devotions when the executioner, at his request, suddenly cut short his prayer.

***

4. He had hardly expired when Siyyid Ḥusayn‑i‑Turshízí, the mujtahid, was conducted in his turn to the block. He was a native of Turshíz, a village in Khurásán, and was highly esteemed for his piety and rectitude of conduct. He had studied for a number of years in Najaf, and was commissioned by his fellow‑mujtahids to proceed to Khurásán and there propagate the principles he had been taught. When he arrived at Káẓimayn, he met Ḥájí Muḥammad‑Táqíy‑i‑Kirmání, an old acquaintance of his, who ranked among the foremost merchants of Kirmán, and who had opened a branch of his business in Khurásán. As he was on his way to Persia, he decided to accompany him. This Ḥájí Muḥammad‑Taqí had been a close friend of Ḥájí Mírzá Siyyid ‘Alí, the Báb’s maternal uncle, through whom he had been converted to the Cause in the year 1264 a.h., while preparing to leave Shíráz on a pilgrimage to Karbilá. When informed of the projected journey of Ḥájí Mírzá Siyyid ‘Alí to Chihríq for the purpose of visiting the Báb, he expressed his eager desire to accompany him. Ḥájí Mírzá Siyyid ‘Alí advised him to carry out his original purpose and proceed to Karbilá and there await his letter, which would inform him whether it would be advisable to join him. From Chihríq, Ḥájí Mírzá Siyyid ‘Alí was ordered to depart for Ṭihrán, in the hope that after a short stay in the capital he would be able to renew his visit to his Nephew. Whilst in Chihríq, he expressed his reluctance to return to Shíráz, inasmuch as he could no longer endure the increasing arrogance of its inhabitants. Upon his arrival in Ṭihrán, he requested Ḥájí Muḥammad‑Taqí to join him. Siyyid Ḥusayn accompanied him from Baghdád to the capital and through him was converted to the Faith.

As he faced the multitude that had gathered round him to witness his martyrdom, Siyyid Ḥusayn raised his voice and said: ‘Hear me, O followers of Islám! My name is Ḥusayn, and I am a descendant of the Siyyidu’sh‑Shuhadá, who also bore that name. The mujtahids of the holy cities of Najaf and Karbilá have unanimously testified to my position as the authorised expounder of the law and teachings of their Faith. Not until recently had I heard the name of the Siyyid‑i‑Báb. The mastery I have obtained over the intricacies of the Islámic teachings has enabled me to appreciate the value of the Message which the Siyyid‑i‑Báb has brought. I am convinced that, were I to deny the Truth which He has revealed, I should, by this very act, have renounced my allegiance to every Revelation that has preceded it. I appeal to every one of you to call upon the ‘ulamás and mujtahids of this city and to convene a gathering, at which I will undertake in their presence to establish the truth of this Cause. Let them then judge whether I am able to demonstrate the validity of the claims advanced by the Báb. If they be satisfied with the proofs which I shall adduce in support of my argument, let them desist from shedding the blood of the innocent; and if I fail, let them inflict upon me the punishment I deserve.’ These words had scarcely dropped from his lips when an officer in the service of the Amír‑Niẓám haughtily interjected: ‘I carry with me your death‑warrant signed and sealed by seven of the recognised mujtahids of Ṭihrán, who have in their own handwriting pronounced you an infidel. I will myself be answerable to God on the Day of Judgement for your blood, and will lay the responsibility upon those leaders in whose judgement we have been asked to put our trust and to whose decisions we have been compelled to submit.’ With these words he drew out his dagger and stabbed him with such force that he immediately fell dead at his feet.

***

5. Soon after, Ḥájí Muḥammad‑Táqíy‑i‑Kirmání was led to the scene of execution. The ghastliness of the sight he beheld provoked his violent indignation. ‘Approach, you wretched and heartless tyrant,’ he burst forth as he turned to his persecutor, ‘and hasten to slay me, for I am impatient to join my beloved Ḥusayn. To live after him is a torture I cannot endure.’

***

6. No sooner had Ḥájí Muḥammad‑Taqí uttered these words than Siyyid Murtaḍá, who was one of the noted merchants of Zanján, hastened to take precedence of his companions. He flung himself over the body of Ḥájí Muḥammad‑Taqí, and pleaded that, being a siyyid, his martyrdom would be more meritorious in the sight of God than that of Ḥájí Muḥammad‑Taqí. As the executioner unsheathed his sword, Siyyid Murtaḍá invoked the memory of his martyred brother, who had struggled side by side with Mullá Ḥusayn; and such were his references that the onlookers marvelled at the unyielding tenacity of the faith with which he was inspired.

***

7. In the midst of the turmoil which the stirring words of Siyyid Murtaḍá had raised, Muḥammad‑Ḥusayn‑i‑Marághi’í rushed forward and begged that he be allowed to be martyred immediately ere his companions were put to the sword. As soon as his eyes fell upon the body of Ḥájí Mullá Ismá‘íl‑i‑Qumí, for whom he entertained a deep affection, he impulsively threw himself upon him and, holding him in his embrace, exclaimed: ‘Never will I consent to separate myself from my dearly beloved friend, in whom I have reposed the utmost confidence and from whom I have received so many evidences of a sincere and deep‑felt affection!’

***

Their eagerness to precede one another in laying down their lives for their Faith astonished the multitude who wondered which of the three would be preferred to his companions. They pleaded with such fervour that eventually they were beheaded, all three, at one and the same moment.

So great a faith, such evidences of unbridled cruelty, human eye has rarely beheld. Few as they were in number, yet when we recall the circumstances of their martyrdom, we are compelled to acknowledge the stupendous character of that force which could evoke so rare a spirit of self‑sacrifice. When we remember the exalted rank these victims had occupied, when we observe the degree of their renunciation and the vitality of their faith, when we recall the pressure which from influential quarters had been exerted to avert the danger with which their lives were threatened, above all when we picture to our minds the spirit that defied the atrocities which a heartless enemy so far bemeaned themselves as to inflict upon them, we are impelled to look upon that episode as one of the most tragic occurrences in the annals of this Cause.